# Fashion & Accessories

Fashion & Accessories

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Fashion & Accessories

Fashion & Accessories

Fashion is a dynamic industry at the core of fast moving consumer goods. While the term fashion is conventionally associated with the design and style of clothing, accessories, and footwear, the fashion industry extends further and includes the production, supply, distribution, and sales of such items, supported by a global network of manufacturers and workforce both in the manufacturing and retail side of the industry. However, it is useful and necessary to make a distinction between the luxury end of the industry and mass-produced, readily available products. Today, the fashion retail landscape is driven by brands and companies in the latter category.
The popularity and power of the fashion industry comes from the ever-increasing demand of consumers, which leads to more and more production and sales. Worldwide, the revenue of the apparel market reached a value of 1.73 trillion U.S. dollars in 2023. This figure is projected to grow by more than 250 billion dollars by 2028.
Leading exporter of clothing worldwide
China
Most valuable apparel brand
Nike
Worldwide sales of Inditex
35.95 billion EUR

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Apparel and footwear consumer behavior in the U.S.
Fast fashion in Europe
Footwear market in the U.S.
Footwear industry in Europe
Apparel and footwear resale in the U.S.
Textiles and clothing industry in Turkey
Women's inclusive sizing apparel market in the U.S.
Apparel market in the U.S.
adidas
Apparel market in Canada
Apparel market in Latin America
Apparel market in Brazil
Fashion eCommerce: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Bigger, faster, digital

Revenue in the apparel market worldwide from 2018 to 2029 (in trillion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue in the apparel market worldwide from 2018 to 2029 (in trillion U.S. dollars)

The global revenue of apparel and accessories increased by 160 billion U.S. dollars from 2022 to 2023. Statista's Consumer Market Outlook projects that the market will continue to grow and, by 2027, revenues will reach the two trillion U.S. dollar mark. A significant proportion of these revenues come from online sales. In 2023 over one fifth of total e-commerce sales in the U.S. were from apparel, footwear, and accessories.
Apparel market worldwide
Apparel and clothing market in Europe
Fashion e-commerce in the U.S.
Market segments
The high end of fashion

Brand value of the leading 10 most valuable luxury brands worldwide in 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Brand value of the leading 10 most valuable luxury brands worldwide in 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)

Despite largely appealing to affluent shoppers, the luxury segment holds an increasingly relevant place within the fashion industry. Dominated by accessories like jewelry, eyewear, bags, and other leather goods, the personal luxury goods market value was 337 billion euros in 2023. With a value of roughly 130 million U.S. dollars Louis Vuitton is the most valuable luxury brand worldwide, leaving behind a coterie of other well-known names like Chanel, Hermès, and Gucci.
Global personal luxury goods industry
Luxury goods in Europe
Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton (LVMH Group)
Industry trends
Secondhand and pre-owned retail is in fashion

Secondhand apparel market value worldwide from 2021 to 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Secondhand apparel market value worldwide from 2021 to 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)

One of the most influential changes to happen in the fashion industry in recent years is the growing awareness of sustainability, which has led many consumers to switch to pre-owned fashion items. The market for secondhand apparel is estimated to rise from a value of 197 billion U.S. dollars in 2023 to 350 billion by 2028.
While previously thrift stores were the conventional channels to buy secondhand clothing articles, today the most popular channel is online, via apps or websites.
Apparel and footwear resale in the U.S.
Sustainable fashion worldwide
Fast fashion in Europe
Industry leaders
European fashion brands win the fashion game

Revenue of selected clothing and accessories retailers worldwide in the financial year 2022 (in million euros)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of selected clothing and accessories retailers worldwide in the financial year 2022 (in million euros)

Some of the biggest names in fashion retail are companies with European roots. The Spain-based Inditex Group and Swedish H&M are two of the most popular and successful brands based on annual revenues registered worldwide. In 2022, the Inditex Group recorded over 32.5 billion euros from its global operations.
The Inditex Group is the parent company to a number of fashion retailers including Zara, which drives the most sales and has the highest number of stores among the group's brands.
Primark
H&M
Inditex
State of the industry

Industry definition

Fashion is best defined simply as the style or styles of clothing and accessories worn at any given time by groups of people. The fashion industry has a tremendous variety of products, small product life cycles, unpredictable and volatile demand, and inflexible, long supply procedures. Statista's content on fashion and accessories provides extensive information and statistical data on the global and regional state of fashion retail. Spanning apparel, footwear, as well as the luxury segment, data on fashion retail covers the key players of the industry, purchasing behavior of customers, and the latest trends pursued by brick-and-mortar and omnichannel fashion retailers.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Fashion & Accessories"
About You
Activewear in the U.S.
adidas
American Eagle Outfitters
Apparel and footwear market in Indonesia
Apparel and footwear resale in the U.S.
Apparel industry in China
Apparel industry in South Korea
Apparel market in Australia
More interesting topics from the industry "Fashion & Accessories"
Fashion

    Amazon fashion
    Apparel market in Finland
    Apparel market in India
    Apparel market in Italy
    Apparel market in Portugal
    Apparel market in Russia
    Entertainment e-commerce
    Eyewear industry in Europe
    Fashion and luxury companies in the stock market
    Fashion e-commerce in Canada
    Fashion e-commerce in France
    Fashion e-commerce in Sweden
    Fashion e-commerce in the United States
    Fashion e-commerce worldwide
    Fashion in Germany
    Fast fashion in Europe
    Footwear e-commerce
    Footwear market in Brazil
    Generational fashion e-commerce in the United States
    Jewelry market in Australia
    Jewelry market in Italy
    Levi Strauss & Co.
    Online fashion in Belgium
    Online fashion in the Netherlands
    PVH Corporation
    Sporting goods e-commerce
    Subscription commerce
    Textile and clothing retail in Germany
    Uniqlo
    Women's apparel market in India

Footwear

    Birkenstock
    Footwear companies and retailers in Italy
    Footwear in Canada
    Footwear in Russia
    Footwear industry in China
    Footwear industry in Italy
    Footwear market in France
    Footwear market in India
    Footwear market in Latin America
    Footwear market in Spain
    Footwear market in the U.S.
    Footwear market in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Global footwear market

Luxury Goods

    Big ticket e-commerce
    Burberry
    Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group
    Corporate social responsibility in the luxury industry in France
    Diamond industry
    Fashion and luxury companies in the stock market
    Fashion in the metaverse
    Fragrance market in China
    Global personal luxury goods industry
    Global prestige/luxury cosmetics
    Heritage luxury in the UK
    Hermès and the luxury market
    High-net-worth collectors
    Hugo Boss
    Jewelry market in Australia
    Jewelry market in India
    Jewelry market in Italy
    Jewelry market worldwide
    Lab-grown diamond industry
    Luxury e-commerce
    Luxury e-commerce in Europe
    Luxury e-commerce in the United States
    Luxury fashion e-commerce worldwide
    Luxury goods in Europe
    Luxury goods in Germany
    Luxury goods in Japan
    Luxury goods in Thailand
    Luxury goods in the UK
    Luxury goods market in China
    Luxury goods market in Hong Kong
    Luxury goods market in India
    Luxury goods market in Poland
    Luxury goods market in South Africa
    Luxury goods market in South Korea
    Luxury goods market in the Asia-Pacific region
    Luxury goods, Gen Z, and millennials
    Luxury marketing in China
    Luxury watch industry
    M&A in the luxury goods sector
    Michael Kors
    Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton (LVMH Group)
    Prada
    Ralph Lauren
    Richemont
    Second-hand luxury goods market worldwide
    Secondhand luxury leather goods
    Secondhand luxury watches
    Swiss watch industry
    The Kering Group
    U.S. prestige/luxury beauty

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

