# Furniture Retail

Furniture Retail

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Furniture Retail

Furniture Retail

The home furnishings retail industry allows consumers to make their homes truly their own with their very own choices of furniture and décor. It is a multi-billion-dollar industry, which employs large numbers of people around the world. In 2023, the global market revenue of furniture was estimated to be over 738 billion U.S. dollars and was forecast to grow to almost 922 billion dollars by 2028. Like many other industries, e-commerce is steadily gaining market share in the industry. This has been further helped by advancements in logistics and delivery options. Other trends that will have an impact on the industry over the coming years include sustainability, secondhand sales, and the use of virtual reality.
Forecast furniture market revenue worldwide in 2028
921.6bn USD
Furniture e-commerce revenue in the U.S. 2024
125bn USD
Top furniture exporter worldwide
China

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Furniture industry worldwide
Furniture market in the U.S.
Furniture industry in Europe
IKEA
Wayfair
Williams-Sonoma
Furniture market in South Korea
Furniture market in Indonesia
Furniture market in Japan
Furniture market in Latin America
Furniture: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
The United States dominates the furniture market

Revenue in the furniture market worldwide from 2018 to 2030, by selected country (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue in the furniture market worldwide from 2018 to 2030, by selected country (in billion U.S. dollars)

The United States generated nearly 254 billion U.S. dollars in furniture revenue in 2023, making it the leading market globally. China and Germany came in second and third place, with both markets worth over the 50 billion U.S. dollars mark. While most consumers still prefer to buy their furniture in stores, e-commerce has a strong presence. In the United States, the homeware and furniture industry represented roughly nine percent of the total e-commerce segment in 2023.
Furniture market worldwide
Furniture e-commerce worldwide
Furniture market in the U.S.
Market segments
Bedding and bedroom furniture

Forecast revenue of the bedding market in the United States from 2018 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Forecast revenue of the bedding market in the United States from 2018 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)

In the United States, bedding market revenue was forecast to increase in the following years. From 2024 onwards, market revenue would continue growing, estimated to reach 23.4 million U.S. dollars in 2029. In general, bedroom furniture revenue was also forecast to rise across all segments, which include bedding, but also closets, nightstands, beds, and mattresses.
Bedroom furniture revenue in the U.S.
Revenue of the home decor market in the U.S.
Sales value of household goods in the UK
Industry trends
E-commerce, augmented reality, and eco-friendly furniture on the rise

Investment in augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) technology worldwide in 2024, by use case (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Investment in augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) technology worldwide in 2024, by use case (in billion U.S. dollars)

Besides e-commerce, a notable trend is the rise of augmented reality. Most consumers still prefer to buy large pieces of furniture in-store yet many of them start the buying process online. With augmented reality, furniture retailers are enabling shoppers to visualize how a sofa, or bed will look in their homes, facilitating their purchase decision. Another trend is the growing concern about climate change and deforestation, which has resulted in an increased interest in sustainable furniture.
Top furniture e-commerce markets
Level of concern about furniture unavailability
Attitudes on corporate sustainability communications in the U.S.
Industry leaders
IKEA, the world’s largest furniture retailer

Annual revenue of the IKEA Group worldwide from 2001 to 2025 (in billion euros)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Annual revenue of the IKEA Group worldwide from 2001 to 2025 (in billion euros)

IKEA, a Swedish multinational company based in the Netherlands, has been the world’s leading furniture retailer for the past decade. IKEA offers low prices and a huge range of products, while constantly introducing new product designs that look stylish in the eyes of customers. All the products are designed so they are easy to transport and assemble. The company has over 470 stores and is the most valuable furniture retailer brand in the world.
IKEA
Top selling countries for IKEA products
IKEA's stores worldwide
State of the industry

Industry definition

The furniture retail category offers historical and forecast data about the industry’s revenues and market size. Statistics about bedding and home furnishing retailers are available, including the industry leaders in terms of sales and number of stores. Additionally, it encompasses statistics of furniture retailers' number of store visits, number of employees, distribution of sales by category, region, and market share information.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Furniture Retail"
Big ticket e-commerce
Furniture and Living in the United States
Furniture industry in Europe
Furniture industry worldwide
Furniture market in Canada
Furniture market in China
Furniture market in Denmark
Furniture market in Germany
Furniture market in Indonesia
More interesting topics from the industry "Furniture Retail"
Home Furnishings

    Bed Bath & Beyond
    Furniture e-commerce in the United States
    Ross Stores
    Wayfair

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

