# Health & Hygiene

Health & Hygiene

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Health & Hygiene

Health & Hygiene

Retail sales in the health and hygiene industry cover a wide range of products in a variety of stores, drugstores being the primary format. Typically, in a drugstore, consumers can find beauty care and cosmetics, skincare and haircare, oral and feminine hygiene products, as well as non-medication health products such as supplements, minerals, and vitamins. Some OTC drugs are also available in drugstores.
Additionally, perfumeries and opticians are part of the health and hygiene retail sector.
OTC drug retail sales in the United States
43.4 billion USD
Per capita sales in health and personal care stores in the United States
1,209 USD
Leading drugstores in the United States based on retail sales
Walgreens

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Rite Aid
Cosmetics industry in the U.S.
Cosmetics market in China
Skin care market in South Korea
OTC medicines in the UK
Procter & Gamble
Walgreens Boots Alliance
CVS Health
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in the United States
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in Germany
Cosmetics and personal care industry in Norway
Food supplements in Germany
Beauty & Personal Care: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Combining health and personal care

Revenue in the personal care segment worldwide from 2018 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue in the personal care segment worldwide from 2018 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Health and hygiene retail is a broad concept that encompasses everything from drugstores and pharmacies to stores that specialize in the selling of health products like vitamins and supplements, as well as personal care, cosmetics, and beauty products. In the United States, the boundaries between the health care and personal care market are more blurred than they are in Europe, as retail chain stores such as Walgreens and Walmart also provide pharmacy services and fill prescriptions.
Health expenditures in the U.S.
Vitamins & Minerals: market data & analysis
Walmart
Market segments
Drugstores: a versatile format

Top U.S. pharmacies ranked by prescription drugs market share in 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Top U.S. pharmacies ranked by prescription drugs market share in 2024

The market for health and hygiene product retail is reflected in the concept of drugstores. In Europe, drugstores are typically retail stores that sell personal care and hygiene products, beauty care and cosmetics, and in the case of some countries, OTC drugs and non-prescription health products like vitamins and supplements. Unlike their European counterparts, U.S. drugstores and chains like Walgreens and Walmart provide pharmacy services as well.
OTC sales volume in the United States 2017-2023
Pharmacy care in the UK
Cosmetics industry in the United States
Industry trends
Beauty and personal care products are on the rise

Monthly retail sales of health and personal care stores in the United States from January 2017 to November 2024 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Monthly retail sales of health and personal care stores in the United States from January 2017 to November 2024 (in million U.S. dollars)

The beauty industry keeps on experiencing incessant growth, as consumers worldwide keep on becoming more and more aware of the importance of self-care and try to preserve a youthful appearance. Cosmetics and personal care items are also among the most popular on social media. Skincare and hair care are some of the most profitable categories, registering noteworthy results. Vitamins and beauty supplements are also gaining prominence among consumers.
Cosmetics industry worldwide
Cosmetics industry in the U.S.
Hair care market in the U.S.
Industry leaders
No. 1 in pharmacy retail and drugstores: Walgreens-Boots Alliance

Leading drugstores in the United States in 2024, based on retail sales (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading drugstores in the United States in 2024, based on retail sales (in billion U.S. dollars)

The global market for health and hygiene retail has Walgreens-Boots Alliance at its forefront. The American company operates in the wholesale of pharmaceuticals and pharmacy retail segments. It owns the drugstore chains Walgreens in the United States and Boots in the United Kingdom. In the U.S., there are 8,706 Walgreens stores spread across the country. In the United Kingdom, Boots retail and beauty care stores are available in 2,514 locations.
CVS Health
Rite Aid
Walgreens-Boots Alliance
State of the industry

Industry definition

The health and hygiene segment comprises a variety of products that are primarily sold in drugstores and perfumeries. These products are beauty and personal care items such as fragrances, makeup, hair care and coloring products, sunscreen, toothpaste, bath products, and nail care. Health care products such as masks, sanitizers, supplements, vitamins, minerals, and OTC medication are also included.
Statista's content on health and hygiene retailers provides an overview of pharmacy, perfumery, and drugstore retail globally, as well as in the United States and Europe. Data on health and hygiene retail also includes product-specific macro-economic indicators such as retail sales, consumer price index and consumer expenditure of the key consumer goods items in this industry.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Health & Hygiene"
Avon Products Inc.
Bath & Body Works
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in Italy
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in Latin America
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in the UK
Beauty and personal care in France
Beauty and personal care in Southeast Asia
Beauty and personal care industry in India
Beauty and personal care market in Australia
More interesting topics from the industry "Health & Hygiene"
Drugstores & Perfumeries

    Beauty and personal care e-commerce in Canada
    Beauty and pharmacy retail in Scandinavia
    Cosmetics e-commerce
    Cosmetics market in Poland
    Cosmetics market in Russia
    CVS Health
    Fragrance e-commerce
    Fragrance market in Europe
    Gen Z online beauty shoppers
    Olive Young
    Online beauty retailers in the United States
    Rite Aid
    Sephora.com
    Walgreens Boots Alliance

Optician & Audiologist

    Eyewear industry in Europe
    Optometry and optical industry in Europe

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

