# International Trade

International Trade

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›International Trade

International Trade

International trade is an indispensable component of the global economy. While the movement of commodities form the backbone of international trade, the import and export of services like banking, consulting, and financial services are also an integral part of the economic relationship between countries and regions. The international trade of goods and services is facilitated by commercial agreements and frameworks like the European Single Market or the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Many trade agreements are designed to eliminate tariffs and border checks to enable smooth, efficient, and free trade. In the absence of an existing agreement, the World Trade Organization (WTO) regulates the rules and regulations of trade activities.

Many countries import goods that they either do not manufacture themselves or that are too costly to produce. Today, China, the leading manufacturing country globally, is also the number one exporter of goods to the rest of the world.
Value of U.S. imports from China
427 billion USD
Value of U.S. exports to China
147.8 billion USD
Value of U.S. exports to the world
2.1 trillion USD

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Global economy
Trade in the U.S.
Export trade in China
The UK economy
Economy of Europe
Imports in the U.S.
U.S. exports
U.S. exports to China
International trade of Japan
Trade in Turkey
Trade in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
The ever-expanding goods trade

Trends in global export value of trade in goods from 1950 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Trends in global export value of trade in goods from 1950 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Following the global financial crisis, the worldwide movement of trade goods stagnated for a brief period of time in 2009. Since then, the trade volume of imports and exports between countries has continued to climb with minor interruptions, mainly as a reflection of global political affairs like the US-China trade wars, and most recently due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. In 2022, the volume of merchandise exports traded worldwide was recorded at around 25 trillion U.S. dollars.
Global economy
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership
Market segments
Import and export trade - a crucial link in the global economy

Growth in GDP and trade volume worldwide from 2007 to 2025, with a forecast until 2027
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Growth in GDP and trade volume worldwide from 2007 to 2025, with a forecast until 2027

Today's global economy is more interdependent than ever, and trade relations between individual countries and groups play a big part in this interconnectedness. In fact, trade volume and GDP growth trends of global economies show clear parallels and this link is expected to continue in future projections.
U.S. imports
U.S. exports
U.S. exports to China
Industry trends
Machinery is the most traded commodity

Value of leading imports and exports commodities traded worldwide in 2022, by sector (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Value of leading imports and exports commodities traded worldwide in 2022, by sector (in billion U.S. dollars)

Electrical machinery is currently the most traded commodity based on the value of global imports and exports. In 2021, the value for both imports and exports in the machinery sector surpassed six billion U.S. dollars. Machinery is often purchased and sold in components, in the form of capital and intermediary goods.
Another sector with a high import and export value is transportation with equipment used in the manufacturing of cars and other vehicles being the typically traded commodity.
Automotive industry in China: imports and exports
Construction equipment industry in the U.S.
Bosch
Industry leaders
China drives global exports trade

Leading export countries worldwide in 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading export countries worldwide in 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

China and the United States are the world's two biggest exporting countries. In 2023, export goods with a total value of 3.38 trillion U.S. dollars left China for destinations around the world. For the United States, this value was just over two trillion U.S. dollars.
China-U.S. trade relations
Export trade in China
U.S. Trade
State of the industry

    Exports from China
    U.S. exports
    Trade in Singapore
    Sino-U.S. trading relationship
    Global waste trade

Industry definition

International trade refers to the worldwide movement of goods and services between countries and regions, facilitated by legally recognized trade agreements.
Statista's international trade data offers extensive global content with detailed regional breakdowns for both import and export trade. Additional information is provided in the form of dossiers, studies, and topic pages on bilateral trade relationships, key commodities exchanged between countries, leading importing and exporting countries around the world, and the leading goods and services that drive international trade.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "International Trade"
Agricultural trade in China
Agriculture in Africa
Agriculture in China
Agriculture in Israel
Agriculture in Morocco
Agriculture sector in Spain
Alcoholic beverage in the Philippines
Automotive industry in China: imports and exports
Beauty and personal care market in Mexico
More interesting topics from the industry "International Trade"
Export

    Export trade in China
    Export trade in Ghana
    Exports from South Korea
    Mining industry in the DR Congo
    Natural resources in Nigeria
    Water industry in Ghana

Import

    Food and nutrition in Ghana
    Import trade in Ghana
    Imports to China
    Imports to South Korea

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

