# Shopping Behavior

Shopping Behavior

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Shopping Behavior

Shopping Behavior

A consumer's shopping behavior heavily depends on several factors including, but not limited to age, origin, gender, interests. What might be a certain group of people’s shopping preference, might not coincide with the habits of another group. Adding to this, what consumers base their purchasing decisions on, how they look for products and services, and what payment methods they use, is evolving constantly.

While shoppers base their purchasing decisions on personal factors, such as budget and favorite stores & items, they can be influenced by external circumstances. For example, the current rise of inflation is having a strong and global impact on the way consumers shop, causing many to limit their expenses and shift their attention towards cheaper alternatives and ways to save.
Leading way U.S. consumers will keep Valentine's Day costs down
Choosing less expensive gift options
Most costly consumer spending event in the United States
Back-to-college season
Share of Gen Z who don't buy fast fashion in the U.S. in 2024
13%

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Differences by market
    Market events
    E-commerce market
    Industry trends
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
U.S. Thanksgiving weekend shopping
U.S. Gen Z & millennials: consumer goods and shopping behavior
Valentine's Day in the U.S.
Black Friday in the UK
Halloween in the U.S.
Back-to-school
Impact of inflation on consumer behavior
Consumer behavior in the U.S.
Popular gifts & gifting behavior in the U.S.
Christmas season shopping in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Differences by market
How consumers around the world go shopping

Share of sustainable shopping behaviors among UK shoppers from 2022 to 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of sustainable shopping behaviors among UK shoppers from 2022 to 2024

What consumerism and the retail landscape look like, can differ heavily depending on the country, specific market, and/or demographic analyzed. Whether it be attitudes towards sustainability, the frequency of shopping trips, or how much the average consumer spends on clothing, what is the case for one group of people, may not be the same for another.
Consumers in India
Consumer behavior in Ireland
Shopping behavior trends in Germany
Market events
Important traditions & sales events

Average expected spend per capita on Valentine's Day in the United States from 2009 to 2026 (in U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average expected spend per capita on Valentine's Day in the United States from 2009 to 2026 (in U.S. dollars)

Typical consumer habits often look different during specific events. From Valentine's Day to Halloween, all the way to December's holiday season, shoppers frequently spend a little extra on all kinds of items and services at times like these. Some of the most vital annual sales events for retailers include Black Friday and Cyber Monday. During Cyber Weekend, consumer expenditures are at their highest, in preparation for Christmas and other holidays around this time.
Black Friday in the UK
Christmas season in the Netherlands
Holiday Shopping: Tis' the Season to Shop Online
E-commerce market
Online versus offline shopping behavior

Main reasons why consumers abandon their orders during the checkout process in the United States in 2025
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Main reasons why consumers abandon their orders during the checkout process in the United States in 2025

A large and increasingly important aspect of shopping behavior is its digital counterpart. With the rise of e-commerce platforms, such as Amazon, eBay, Alibaba, and the like, shopping online has become a common, convenient, and often cheaper buying option for consumers. For many product categories, physical store visits and sales figures are still higher than those of e-commerce stores, however, e-commerce revenue and the number of online shoppers continues to grow with each passing year.
Amazon Prime Day
Digital shopping behavior in Europe
Most popular countries to make cross-border online purchases 2023
Industry trends
The impact of inflation

Share of consumers who are concerned about finances and have changed their spending habits worldwide in 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of consumers who are concerned about finances and have changed their spending habits worldwide in 2023

The world has been dealing with rising prices. This global wave of inflation for all kinds of items and services (e.g., consumer goods and gas) came about through the culmination of several factors, including COVID-19 and its resulting supply chain issues, as well as the Russia-Ukraine war. Such high and sudden inflation rates translate to life being considerably more expensive for the consumer, which is why many have attempted to adjust their shopping and spending habits.
Consumers worried about inflation in the UK
Dear Santa, Can I Pay Later This Year?
Inflation worldwide
State of the industry

Industry definition

The category shopping behavior covers a range of statistics and survey results dealing with offline and in-store consumer spending, as well as buying habits in general. It analyzes shopping attitudes among different consumer groups (e.g. gender and generation) and retail categories, such as electronics, apparel, shoes, personal care items, household products, and so on. Common questions that tend to be addressed here include, for example, ’Where and how often do people shop?’, ‘What products do consumers buy during the holidays?’, or ‘How much money do they spend on average on certain product items?’

Data is frequently provided by manufacturers, research companies, and ad agencies, who show a special interest in shopping behavior among various regions, ethnic groups, and generations. A considerable share of these topics are discussed in conjunction with seasonal events and ongoing issues.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Shopping Behavior"
Alcohol consumption in Canada
Aldi customers in Germany
Apparel and footwear consumer behavior in the U.S.
Apparel market in Australia
Apparel shopping behavior in Europe
Back-to-college
Back-to-school
Beauty and personal care market in Australia
Beauty boxes in the U.S.
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

