# Subscriptions & Direct Selling

Subscriptions & Direct Selling

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Subscriptions & Direct Selling

Subscriptions & Direct Selling

Direct selling and subscription services are two different business models that frequently go hand in hand. Direct selling refers to selling to the consumer without the use of third parties, which allows manufacturers to get to market faster, while subscription service translates to customers paying a recurring fee in order to access or receive an item or service.

On a worldwide scale, direct selling and subscription services are more common in specific regions. Additionally, consumers tend to use each of these options more for specific goods and services. Wellness, cosmetics, personal care products, household goods and durables are some of the more usual products provided by direct sellers, while examples of popular subscription items include food or meal kits, beauty, or hobby material boxes.
Retail sales of the direct selling industry in Europe
34.7bn USD
Leading direct selling company in the world in terms of revenue
Amway
Average lifetime value (LTV) of food & beverage subscribers worldwide
356 U.S. dollars

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Direct selling market segment
    Subscription market segment
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Meal kits in the U.S.
Direct selling market
Newspaper industry in the UK
Magazines in Germany
Cord-cutting in the United States
Avon Products Inc.
Subscriptions and direct selling in the U.S.
Direct selling market worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Direct selling & subscriptions worldwide

Share of consumers enrolled in at least one loyalty program in Australia from 2016 to 2025
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of consumers enrolled in at least one loyalty program in Australia from 2016 to 2025

The subscription strategy for goods and services has been adopted by many companies, and subscribers can be found all over the world. In contrast, the concept of direct selling, which is also an international one, is much more prevalent in selected parts of the world. For example, the United States is by far the leading direct sales market, followed by China. On the continent of Europe, Germany takes the top spot.
Number of people involved in direct selling in the U.S.
Projected value of the subscription service market in Japan
Reasons why consumers cancel product/service subscriptions worldwide
Direct selling market segment
The modern direct seller

Number of direct sales independent representatives in South America and Central America from 2014 to 2023 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of direct sales independent representatives in South America and Central America from 2014 to 2023 (in millions)

The direct selling business model, not to be confused with the direct-to-consumer model, entails a person-to-person sales interaction or experience between a salesperson (working for a parent multi-level marketing organization or on their own) and a customer. These interactions typically take place offline and at the potential buyer's doorstep. In the United States, there were close to seven million active direct sellers in business.
Leading direct selling markets worldwide
Direct selling retail sales in the U.S.
Number of U.S. direct sellers by type
Subscription market segment
The subscription business model

Share of consumers using subscription boxes in Japan as of March 2023, by product
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of consumers using subscription boxes in Japan as of March 2023, by product

On the other hand, the subscription-based business model refers to businesses selling a product or a service on a monthly or yearly basis, for which consumers pay a recurring fee. Some examples of common subscriptions include meal kit delivery services, pay TV, subscription and loot boxes, among other things.
HelloFresh
Number of BritBox International subscriptions worldwide 2020-2023
Leading reasons to use product/service subscriptions worldwide
Industry leaders
Front runners of the direct selling & subscriptions market

Revenue of HelloFresh worldwide from 2013 to 2024 (in million euros)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of HelloFresh worldwide from 2013 to 2024 (in million euros)

One of the most successful direct sellers worldwide is Amway, which is a multi-level marketing company that focuses on selling health, beauty, and similar goods. Other high rollers include Avon Products, Herbalife International, and Nu Skin Enterprises. While there are many subscription box companies in various industries, some examples of renowned enterprises are HelloFresh, KiwiCo, and BarkBox.
Number of Peloton subscriptions worldwide
Party over for Tupperware?
Global number of Nu Skin customers worldwide
State of the industry

Industry definition

The subscriptions & direct selling category provides data and insights on various products, services, and enterprises in both sub-branches. For direct selling, Statista offers the latest statistics and reports that deal with topics, such as direct sales figures, independent sales representatives, and what companies are leading the market. In terms of subscriptions, interesting data on leading subscription-based services, global subscriber counts, and consumer behavior, etc. can be found here.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Subscriptions & Direct Selling"
Avon Products Inc.
Direct selling market
HelloFresh
Loyalty programs in Australia
Meal kits in the UK
Natura &Co
Nu Skin Enterprises, Inc.
Subscriptions and direct selling in the U.S.
Subscriptions in Japan
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

