# Public Transportation & Mobility Services

Public Transportation & Mobility Services

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Transportation & Logistics
    ›Public Transportation & Mobility Services

Public Transportation & Mobility Services

Public transportation constitutes the backbone of shared ground transportation around the world. Rail, bus, and metro systems move millions of people every day. Public transportation can often offer more affordable and environmentally sustainable transportation and be more efficient at moving large numbers of people than individual transport alternatives, such as passenger cars. Mobility services have emerged as a growing force in the shared transportation market in recent years, enabled by the widespread adoption of smartphones. Mobility services, including ride-hailing services or bicycle and electric scooter hire schemes, can offer more individualized destinations and schedules than traditional public transportation services, which rely on more rigid schedules and routes.
Region with the highest number of passengers using metro systems
Asia-Pacific
Ride-sharing market size worldwide
154bn USD
Ride-hailing and taxi users worldwide
1.7bn

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market Size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry Scope

Industry Insights
Urban public transportation in China
Public transport in the UK
Public transport in Japan
The Deutschlandticket
Ride-hailing in the Asia-Pacific region
Active and micromobility in the U.S.
E-scooters in Europe
Active and micro-mobility in the UK
Shared Mobility: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market Size
Increasing demand for mobility is growing the shared transport sector

Global shared mobility market size forecast from 2017 to 2029, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global shared mobility market size forecast from 2017 to 2029, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)

The global population is increasingly mobile, and this trend is reflected in the projected demand for public transportation and mobility services over the coming decades. Mobility services, still a relatively new and dynamic market, are projected to grow particularly strongly in the coming years as operators move into new geographic markets, establish themselves in existing markets, and explore and create new services.
High-speed rail
Public transportation in Hong Kong
Public transportation in Germany
Market segments
Public transportation meets the sharing economy

Users of the mobility services market worldwide from 2017 to 2030, by segment (in 1,000s)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Users of the mobility services market worldwide from 2017 to 2030, by segment (in 1,000s)

Various mobility services and some hybrid solutions increasingly supplement public transportation systems. While public transportation is usually publicly run or contracted, mobility services, offering more flexibility, are typically operated by private companies. Yet, boundaries between the two are blurring as public transport providers begin to provide publicly operated demand-responsive transport (DRT) as hybrid solutions for marginal routes or specialized transport.
Shared Mobility Market Outlook
Urban public transportation in China
Mobility-as-a-service (MaaS)
Industry trends
Can public transport relieve some of the pressures on cities?

World's busiest metro networks in 2019 and 2020, ranked by number of trips (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic World's busiest metro networks in 2019 and 2020, ranked by number of trips (in millions)

Urbanization and increasing car ownership as global trends are substantially affecting congestion, air quality, and the quality of life in cities and towns. The added impact of passenger cars on the climate has refocused political attention on public transportation as a solution. This is leading to a trend towards investment in new public transport infrastructure, upgrading of existing systems, and incentives for riders, such as lower prices, to draw more people to public transportation.
Public transit in the U.S.
The Deutschlandticket
Public transportation worldwide
Industry leaders
The ride-hailing giants

Number of rides by Uber worldwide from Q2 2017 to Q3 2025 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of rides by Uber worldwide from Q2 2017 to Q3 2025 (in millions)

Founded in 2009, Uber has become a global player with operations worldwide. Uber started as a ride-hailing company and, despite legal challenges, expanded into food delivery and courier services. Lyft is Uber's most significant rival in the United States. Meanwhile, DiDi dominates the market in China.
Mobility services in Japan
Uber
Lyft
Regional overview
Filling the gaps in the public transport network

Ride-sharing market size worldwide from 2017 to 2023 with a forecast through 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Ride-sharing market size worldwide from 2017 to 2023 with a forecast through 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The prevalence and popularity of public transportation and mobility services vary widely across the world. Transport infrastructure investment decisions have long-lasting effects that shape regional and local transport availability and influence people's transport choices over decades. Particularly in regions where public transport availability has been limited or not kept up with demand for shared transport, mobility services have been able to fill some of these gaps.
Ride-hailing in Asia Pacific
High-speed rail in China
Transport infrastructure in Australia
State of the industry

Industry Scope

The public transportation and mobility services category provides information on global, national, and regional public transport and mobility services usage, infrastructure, as well as the general mobility-as-a-service market. The information is complemented with key financial data on the market leaders in these segments. Passenger rail, while considered to be public transportation, is also covered separately under the rail category on the Statista platform.
Transportation & Logistics

    Aviation
    Logistics
    Public Transportation & Mobility Services
    Rail Transport
    Vehicles & Road Traffic
    Water Transport

More interesting topics from the industry "Public Transportation & Mobility Services"
Active and micromobility in the U.S.
Barrier-free transportation in Japan
Mobility-as-a-Service
Passenger transport in the Philippines
Public transit in the United States
Public transport in Australia
Public transport in France
Public transport in Germany
Public transport in Japan
More interesting topics from the industry "Public Transportation & Mobility Services"
Bus and coach

    Urban public transport in India

Commuter, intercity and high-speed rail

    High-speed rail in China
    Urban public transport in India

Mobility services

    Active and micro-mobility in Germany
    Active and micro-mobility in the Nordics
    Active and micro-mobility in the UK
    Bolt
    Car rental and car sharing in Japan
    Car-sharing in Europe
    E-scooters in Europe
    E-scooters in the United States
    Mobility services in India
    Mobility services in Japan
    Mobility solutions in South Korea
    New Mobility Solutions in China
    Ride-hailing in the Asia-Pacific region
    Ride-sharing services in the U.S.
    Ridesharing in Australia
    Shared mobility in Russia 

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Public Transportation & Mobility Services" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

