# Rail Transport

Rail Transport

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Transportation & Logistics
    ›Rail Transport

Rail Transport

Rail traffic can be broken down into passenger rail travel and cargo rail transport. Around the world railway activities and infrastructure are a range of public and private operations as well as mixed systems, depending on location and the aspect of the rail sector. One of the boldest projects currently underway is being undertaken by China, which has become one of the largest investors in rail in in recent years, both at home and abroad. The country intends to invest in almost 70 countries through its Belt and Road Initiative, which inlcudes large-scale investment in rail. In 2022, China had nearly a million freight trains in operation, while the number of train passengers reached 2.2 billion people. The largest passenger rail provider, however, can be found in India. Indian Railways holds an 11 percent market share globally, the largest worldwide.
World's largest railway company
Union Pacific
Country with largest rail network
United States
Global passenger rail users
0.97bn

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market Size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Union Pacific Railroad
Public transportation
Urban public transportation in China
Public transport in Japan
Rail freight industry worldwide
Rail freight industry in North America
Rail freight industry in Europe
Passenger rail transport in Europe
High-speed rail worldwide
The Deutschlandticket
High-speed rail in China
Railway industry in India
Transportation: Rail in the U.S. 2022 - Industry Insights & Data Analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market Size
Slow and steady - growth in global rail sector

Volume of rail freight transported in the United States from 2002 to 2024 (in billion tonne-kilometers)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Volume of rail freight transported in the United States from 2002 to 2024 (in billion tonne-kilometers)

While the crises of recent years affected the global rail industry severely through plummeting passenger numbers, supply chain disruptions, and rising energy prices, the rail sector is back on a path towards growth. Global freight transport by rail is expected to grow in the coming years, as are global rail passenger numbers. This is supported by investment in expanding rail infrastructure in many countries around the world, notably in China and also in the United States.
Global rail passengers
Rail industry in India
Rail freight in Europe
Market segments
Passenger rail on the rise

Market shares of leading passenger rail providers worldwide 2022
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market shares of leading passenger rail providers worldwide 2022

Rail passenger numbers have recovered in many parts of the world following the COVID-19 pandemic and increasing numbers of travellers are choosing to travel by train whether for convenience or due to increased environmental awareness. Especially in the long-distance segment, this is being supported by the expansion of high-speed rail networks, which make inter-city travel faster and the expansion of night train offerings, which allow passengers to travel overnight.
Global passenger rail demand
Intercity rail in the U.S.
Passenger rail in Europe
Industry trends
The global high-speed rail boom

World's fastest trains in 2022, ranked by record speed (in kilometers per hour)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic World's fastest trains in 2022, ranked by record speed (in kilometers per hour)

The global high-speed ail network has been expanding rapidly in recent years, largely driven by China, which operates nearly 44,000 kilometers of high-speed rail network. In Europe, the high-speed rail network has grown to around 12,000 kilometeres. Meanwhile the United States, after decades of primarily focusing on freight rail, has begun building new high-speed rail lines. High-speed trains are expected to be able to travel at least 200 km/h on mixed and 250km/h on dedicated networks.
The global high-speed rail network
High-speed rail in China
Global high-speed rail
Industry leaders
The giants of the rail industry

Union Pacific Railroad's freight revenue from FY 2011 to FY 2023 (in million U.S. dollars)*
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Union Pacific Railroad's freight revenue from FY 2011 to FY 2023 (in million U.S. dollars)*

The largest companies in the rail sector are rail freight operators, which often also own and run the railway infrastructure on which they transport goods. This is the case for the leading rail company worldwide, the U.S.-based freight operator Union Pacific, which owns large swathes of the U.S. rail network. It’s closest competitor is the Canadian National Railway. Among passenger rail operators, meanwhile, Indian Railways hold the largest market share globally.
Leading rail companies
Union Pacific Railroad
Railways in India
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The rail transport category provides information on passenger and cargo railroads. Within this sector, Statista provides information about the business activities of freight forwarders as well as rail and metro operators. Data on a global and regional scale is available. Moreover, information on passenger rail traffic and safety is available as well. All of the information is complemented by data on companies in the rail sector.
Transportation & Logistics

    Aviation
    Logistics
    Public Transportation & Mobility Services
    Rail Transport
    Vehicles & Road Traffic
    Water Transport

More interesting topics from the industry "Rail Transport"
High-speed rail worldwide
Intercity rail services in the United States
Rail industry in Canada
Rail industry in Italy
Rail industry worldwide
Rail transport in South Korea
Railway industry in India
Railway industry in Indonesia
Railway industry in Japan
More interesting topics from the industry "Rail Transport"
Passenger Rail Transport

    Alstom
    Deutsche Bahn in Germany
    London Underground: the Tube
    Passenger rail transport in Europe
    Passenger rail travel in the UK
    Passenger transport in India
    Public transport in Japan
    Public transport in the UK
    Public transportation
    Public transportation in Hong Kong
    Rail services in the UK
    Shinkansen high-speed railway in Japan
    The Deutschlandticket

Rail Freight

    Alstom
    BNSF Railway
    Canadian National Railway
    Canadian Pacific Railway
    Deutsche Bahn in Germany
    Freight transportation in India
    Rail freight industry in Europe
    Rail freight industry in North America
    Rail freight industry worldwide
    Union Pacific Railroad
    Via Rail Canada

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

