# Vehicles & Road Traffic

Vehicles & Road Traffic

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Transportation & Logistics
    ›Vehicles & Road Traffic

Vehicles & Road Traffic

In recent years, the environmental impact of fuel combustion by motor vehicles has garnered increased attention, and a growing number of governments have started implementing regulations to curb emissions from these vehicles. As a result, the market share of electric vehicles is rising, especially in passenger cars, light-duty commercial vehicles, and two-wheelers. Medium- and heavy-duty vehicles face challenges, including long charging times and inaccessible charging infrastructure, leading to a slower development of the new energy commercial fleet.

This shift to more sustainability is echoed by growing technological disruption. Advancements and investments in Artificial Intelligence and new connectivity features are projected to impact safety features and pave the way for a new generation of vehicles. While innovation plays a key part in market development, the socio-political context, geographical factors, and consumer preferences also impact the industry.
Leading motor vehicle type based on global sales
Passenger cars
Largest passenger car market
China
Leading passenger car brand worldwide
Toyota

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Automotive industry worldwide
Automotive industry in the United States
Passenger car market in Europe
Electric vehicles worldwide
Electric vehicles in the United States
Electric vehicle market in China
Electric vehicles in Europe
Commercial vehicles worldwide
Bicycle industry in Europe
E-bikes in Europe
New energy commercial vehicles in Europe
Autonomous vehicles worldwide
Automotive industry worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Slow post-pandemic market growth

Revenue in the Passenger Cars market for different segments Worldwide from 2016 to 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue in the Passenger Cars market for different segments Worldwide from 2016 to 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Passenger cars comprise most of the automotive sector’s sales and grew between 2022 and 2023, reaching 75.3 million units sold. This was the first year since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic when the global sales volume surpassed pre-pandemic levels. The passenger car market size also increased during that period, boosted by the revenue generated from sport-utility vehicles. In contrast, commercial vehicle revenue experienced a slower sales volume growth.
Automotive industry worldwide
Automotive e-commerce worldwide
Electric vehicles: A global overview
Market segments
New opportunities amid the global market shift

Estimated plug-in electric car sales worldwide from 2015 to 2024 (in million units)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Estimated plug-in electric car sales worldwide from 2015 to 2024 (in million units)

Important industry segments include commercial vehicles, passenger cars, and two-wheelers such as bicycles and motorcycles. Within the passenger vehicle segment, two vehicle types have gained market shares in the past years: sport utility vehicles (SUVs) and plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs). By 2023, PEV sales were over four times higher than their 2020 volume, soaring to nearly 14 million units. Used cars are also steadily gaining popularity, partly due to their lower price point.
Worldwide motor vehicle sales by type
Electric vehicles worldwide
Commercial vehicles worldwide
Industry trends
Shift towards electric and active mobility

Research and development expenses and intensity of selected global automotive manufacturers in 2023 (in million euros and percent)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Research and development expenses and intensity of selected global automotive manufacturers in 2023 (in million euros and percent)

Increased environmental consciousness and regulations on fossil fuel vehicles in many countries are changing how the industry operates. Global automotive research and development (R&D) spending has steadily risen, boosted by manufacturers’ interest in new technologies. This race to investments leads to a soaring electric vehicle market, while consumers also turned towards active mobility, such as cycling, to lower their carbon footprint.
Global transportation sector GHG emissions, by country
Autonomous vehicles worldwide
The potential impact of battery-electric vehicles on carbon dioxide emissions
Industry leaders
A highly competitive market

Revenue of Toyota Motor Corporation from 2012 to 2025 (in trillion Japanese yen)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of Toyota Motor Corporation from 2012 to 2025 (in trillion Japanese yen)

Given the frequent challenges and innovation in the field, the automotive sector is a highly competitive market. Toyota and Volkswagen are the most popular brands with the highest global market shares. Manufacturers focusing solely on producing and selling electric vehicles have yet to rank among the best-selling brands worldwide. However, Tesla is one of the most valuable automotive brands, with its Model Y ranked the best-selling car worldwide in 2023.
Most valuable automotive brands worldwide
Global car market share by key brand
Toyota Motor Corporation
Regional overview
Asia-Pacific paves the way

Number of passenger cars sold in the Asia-Pacific region from 2019 to 2024 (in 1,000s)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of passenger cars sold in the Asia-Pacific region from 2019 to 2024 (in 1,000s)

The Asia-Pacific region is the largest passenger car market due to the car sales volume in China. This leads to the Asia-Pacific region dominating the overall motor vehicle market, though the Americas record higher volumes of commercial vehicle sales. Commercial vehicles are most popular in the United States, followed by China. Asia-Pacific is once again the leading region in the two-wheeler market, boosted by China’s demand for motorcycles and bicycles.
Regional passenger car sales
Automotive industry in the Asia-Pacific region
Automotive industry in the United States
State of the industry

Industry definition

Statista’s vehicle and road traffic coverage provides data insights on passenger cars, commercial vehicles, and motorcycles, as well as on bicycles and other micro-mobility and non-motorized transportation modes. These insights include key performance indicators such as vehicle use, sales, and revenue. Statistics also focus on a wide range of topics, such as traffic safety, infrastructure, sustainable and active mobility, consumer behavior, and connected and autonomous vehicles. Reports further give context to the latest trends and challenges in the industry on global, regional, and national levels. Statista also analyzes the performance of various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), comprised of brand rankings and company deep dives.
Transportation & Logistics

    Aviation
    Logistics
    Public Transportation & Mobility Services
    Rail Transport
    Vehicles & Road Traffic
    Water Transport

More interesting topics from the industry "Vehicles & Road Traffic"
AI integration in passenger cars
Aptiv PLC
Audi
Auto Dealers in the United States
Auto suppliers in Japan
Auto suppliers in South Korea
Automobile industry in Japan
Automobili Lamborghini
Automotive components industry in India
More interesting topics from the industry "Vehicles & Road Traffic"
Bicycles

    Active and micro-mobility in Germany
    Active and micro-mobility in the Nordics
    Active and micro-mobility in the UK
    Bicycle industry in Europe
    Bicycle industry in France
    Bicycle industry in the Netherlands
    Bicycle Industry in the U.S.
    Bicycle industry in the UK
    E-bikes in Europe
    E-bikes in Germany
    E-bikes in the United Kingdom
    E-scooters in Europe
    E-scooters in the United States

Commercial Vehicles

    Bentley: a British luxury car brand
    Bus market in South Korea
    Car financing and leasing in the Netherlands
    Commercial and off-highway vehicles in Spain and Portugal
    Commercial vehicle market in Japan
    Commercial vehicles in China
    Commercial vehicles in India
    Commercial vehicles in South Korea
    Commercial vehicles in the Netherlands
    Commercial vehicles worldwide
    Ford in the UK
    Heavy Goods Vehicles in the United Kingdom
    Heavy Vehicle Market in Latin America
    Light Goods Vehicles in the United Kingdom
    Long-distance bus market in Germany
    Medium and heavy commercial vehicle market in Europe
    New energy commercial vehicles in Europe
    Nissan in the UK
    Public buses in the UK
    Public transportation
    Rail services in the UK
    Trucking industry in Canada
    Volkswagen Group in the UK

Motorcycles & Bicycles

    Bicycle industry in Japan
    Bicycle market in Germany
    Bicycle market in Italy
    BMW Group
    E-bikes in Europe
    E-bikes in Germany
    E-bikes in the United Kingdom
    Micromobility start-ups worldwide
    Motorcycle industry China
    Motorcycle industry in Colombia
    Motorcycle industry in France
    Motorcycle industry in Germany
    Motorcycle industry in Indonesia
    Motorcycle industry in Japan
    Motorcycle industry in Thailand
    Motorcycle industry in the Philippines
    Motorcycle industry in the United Kingdom
    Motorcycle industry in the United States
    Motorcycle industry in Turkey
    Motorcycle market in Italy
    Motorcycle market in the Netherlands
    Motorcycle market in Vietnam
    Shared micromobility in Italy
    Shared mobility in the Nordics

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Vehicles & Road Traffic" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

