# Audio

Audio

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Media
    ›Audio

Audio

Including market segments such as live music, digital music as well as podcasts and radio, the audio industry sector has undergone major developments over the last couple of years. The market for music downloads has consistently decreased over the last years reaching a market share of only three percent in 2023, compared to the 67 percent market share of music streaming and 18 percent of physical music. The increasing importance of streaming and digital consumption of audio content is estimated to continue while the role of downloads is predicted to steadily decrease. Overall, the audio market's diversity is likely to deepen following the progressing changes in the way music and audio content is consumed.
LP/EP shipments in the U.S. in 2022
43.2m
Revenue from music streaming in the U.S. 2022
14.4bn USD
Spotify's revenue
13.3bn euros

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Podcasting Industry
Podcast industry in France
Music streaming
Music industry in the U.S.
Radio industry in Europe
Radio Industry in the U.S.
Podcasting in selected markets in Europe
Record labels in the U.S.
Podcasting worldwide
Podcasting in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Digital music consumption is growing

Digital music revenue in selected countries worldwide in 2023 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Digital music revenue in selected countries worldwide in 2023 (in million U.S. dollars)

Digital music consumption is becoming increasingly important for the audio market as the revenue driver. The streaming market in the United States is still growing, generating its highest revenue in 2023 at over 15 billion U.S. dollars. The music streaming segment made up more than 67 percent of the market's total music revenues. At the same time, the physical sale of music has declined over the years.
Music streaming revenue worldwide
Global recorded music revenue by source
U.S. music streaming revenue
Market segments
Streaming is becoming the new normal

Music streaming revenue worldwide from 2005 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Music streaming revenue worldwide from 2005 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Music consumption has significantly changed due to streaming services. In 2023, music streaming made up a share of 94 percent among music revenues. These figures are set to grow further. On the other hand, music downloads revenue shows a downhill trend, with the number of music album downloads dropping to 0.9 million in 2023.
Digital Music - Revenue worldwide
Digital Music - Users worldwide
Digital revenue share of the largest music companies
Industry trends
Live music is growing again

Live music industry revenue worldwide from 2019 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Live music industry revenue worldwide from 2019 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Live music is growing: with concerts and festivals in full swing after the pandemic-related cancellations of 2020. Not only that, but the newest development on the market is concert streaming on the silver screen, in movie theaters. The combination of box office and concert ticket sales brought in nearly 500 million U.S. dollars in early 2024.
The most successful music tours in North America in 2022
Highest grossing music tour each year in North America 2000-2022
Live Nation Entertainment's concert revenue from 2008 to 2022
Industry leaders
Where do people listen to audio content?

Share of music streaming subscribers worldwide in the 4th quarter of 2024, by company
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of music streaming subscribers worldwide in the 4th quarter of 2024, by company

With more of the audio entertainment moving online, industry leaders have developed through content distribution. In 2023, Spotify was the most popular music streaming platform among global consumers with more than 226 million people actively using the service. Spotify demonstrated market dominance in 2022, by reaching 295 million active subscribers that year. Today, despite the numbers being slightly lower, the Swedish streaming giant continues to outrank Apple Music, Tencent, and YouTube.
Spotify MAUs worldwide
Spotify: quarterly revenue worldwide
Brand Power music streaming apps U.S. 2022
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The audio category presents wide-ranging data on global audio entertainment. It covers all aspects of the music industry, including key financial figures on leading record labels, the concert business, music awards, and global music industry revenue.

Within this sector, Statista offers sales figures for physical music and highlights trends in the digital music market via data on streaming revenues, music downloads, and the most popular streaming services worldwide. Insights into listening behavior and global audience preferences are further complemented with statistics on radio stations and use, podcast consumption, and overall listening times.
Media

    Audio
    Books & Publishing
    News
    TV, Video & Film
    Video Gaming & eSports

More interesting topics from the industry "Audio"
Anghami
Audio advertising in the U.S.
Audio consumption in Brazil
Audio consumption in Mexico
Clubhouse
Clubhouse in Russia
Creative content industry in South Korea
Digital audio in Hungary
Digital audio usage in Europe
More interesting topics from the industry "Audio"
Music

    Digital music in the UK
    Digital music industry in China
    Digital music market Europe
    Digitalization of the media industry in Germany
    Event industry in the Netherlands
    Festivals in Finland
    HYBE Corporation
    Independent music publishers worldwide
    K-pop artist BTS
    K-pop artists
    Karaoke industry in Japan
    KPop Demon Hunters
    Live music in China
    Live music worldwide
    Music consumption in the U.S.
    Music industry and consumption in Brazil
    Music industry in Australia
    Music industry in Finland
    Music industry in France
    Music industry in India
    Music industry in Japan
    Music industry in the U.S.
    Music industry worldwide
    Music market in Denmark
    Music market in Norway
    Music market in Sweden
    Music streaming in South Korea
    Music streaming services worldwide
    Music tourism in Europe
    Record labels in France
    Streaming in Japan
    Streaming in the Asia-Pacific region
    Taylor Swift

Podcast

    iHeartMedia
    News and podcasts
    Podcast advertising in the U.S.
    Podcast consumption in Latin America
    Podcast services in the United States
    Podcasting in selected markets in Europe
    Podcasting Industry
    Podcasting worldwide
    Podcasts in Australia
    Radio industry worldwide

Radio

    Broadcasting industry in the United States
    Digital entertainment in Canada
    iHeartMedia
    Media companies in Canada
    Online radio in France
    Online radio in the UK
    Online radio in the United States
    Podcast consumption in Italy
    Podcast industry in France
    Podcasts in the UK
    Radio advertising in Germany
    Radio in Australia
    Radio in Canada
    Radio in France
    Radio industry Benelux
    Radio industry in Europe
    Radio industry in Hungary
    Radio industry in Italy
    Radio industry in Poland
    Rai (Radiotelevisione Italiana)
    SiriusXM
    Spotify and music streaming in the Netherlands
    Video podcasts

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

