# Video Gaming & eSports

Video Gaming & eSports

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Media
    ›Video Gaming & eSports

Video Gaming & eSports

Video games and eSports have truly become a mainstream entertainment option among all age groups. Video games are not only played for entertainment or escapism and many players use games to connect with friends remotely and to socialize online. A seemingly never-ending selection from casual games to indie releases to AAA blockbuster releases translates to a billion-dollar global market. Players can have their pick from a variety of gaming systems, with PCs and consoles like the Sony PlayStation, the Nintendo Switch or Microsoft’s Xbox being popular choices. However, despite the prominence of console gaming, it is mobile games that account for the biggest share of the gaming market.
Global video game market revenue
455bn USD
Number of mobile gamers worldwide
2bn
Market with biggest gaming reach
Indonesia

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry leaders
    Industry trends
    Industry spotlight: gaming videos
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Video game industry
Video gaming worldwide
Gaming monetization
Video gaming in Canada
Video gaming in the United States
Game industry in South Korea
Video gaming and the metaverse
Console gaming in Japan
Gaming video content worldwide
Best-selling video games - top publishers and titles
Best-selling video games - top markets
Video gaming in the United States
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Video game revenues are constantly growing

Games market revenue worldwide from 2015 to 2022, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Games market revenue worldwide from 2015 to 2022, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)

Industry estimates value the global video gaming market at 174.9 billion U.S. dollars in 2020, representing a 19.6 percent YoY growth. China and the United States are the biggest games markets, accounting for nearly half of the global gaming revenues. The majority of gaming revenues are generated through digital sales and downloads, with physical unit sales declining.
Console gaming consumer market value worldwide by distribution
Revenue of the U.S. video game industry by segment
Global digital games industry revenue by category
Market segments
Mobile is king

Global video gaming revenue from 2022 to 2032, by platform (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global video gaming revenue from 2022 to 2032, by platform (in billion U.S. dollars)

With the almost universal adoption of smartphones and mobile internet worldwide, it is hardly a surprise that this accessible technology has opened gaming for a wider range of audiences. Global mobile gaming revenues nearly reached 74 billion U.S. dollars in 2020, with the F2P (free-to-play) PC games coming in second with 22.7 billion U.S. dollars. One of the most popular mobile games of 2020 was PUBG Mobile, which grossed 2.6 billion U.S. dollars worldwide throughout the year.
Highest grossing mobile games worldwide
Preferred video gaming genre worldwide
Industry leaders
The biggest game publishers

Market capitalization of the largest gaming companies worldwide as of June 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market capitalization of the largest gaming companies worldwide as of June 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The fast growth of mobile gaming led to producers and publishers in the mobile segment quickly gaining relevance and now rivaling companies that rose to prominence during the console and PC gaming era. The biggest publishers by market cap are Activision Blizzard, Nintendo, and Electronic Arts. Several major gaming companies are segments of larger, more diversified companies like Microsoft, Sony, or Tencent. Most of the biggest gaming publishers are headquartered either in North America or Asia.
Eletronic Arts (EA) revenue by platform
Annual online gaming revenue generated by Tencent
Sony PlayStation gaming software unit sales
Industry trends
eSports as a competitive endeavor

eSports market size worldwide from 2023 to 2033 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic eSports market size worldwide from 2023 to 2033 (in billion U.S. dollars)

eSports, organized multiplayer video game competitions between professional players either as individuals or teams, has become a central aspect of online gaming culture. The rise of professional gamers and live streaming of eSports events saw a large surge in popularity, resulting in the formation of tournaments and leagues. The highest earning eSports player worldwide is Johan Sundstein aka N0tail, with 7.18 million U.S. dollars in cumulative career earnings.
eSports market
Leading eSports titles by cumulative tournament prize pool
Leading eSports countries ranked by number of active players
Industry spotlight: gaming videos
Gaming content generates millions of views

Most popular Twitch channels worldwide as of April 2025, by number of followers (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most popular Twitch channels worldwide as of April 2025, by number of followers (in millions)

Video gaming audiences are highly engaged and are keen to connect with gaming content on various platforms. Gaming-related videos such as live streams, commentary or Let’s Play (playthrough videos) and walkthroughs are among the most popular types of video content online. On YouTube, gaming accounts for about a third of video content uploads and seven percent of video views. In the second half of 2020, live streaming platform Twitch had an average of over two million viewers at any given time.
Active streamers on Twitch worldwide
Average number of viewers of YouTube Gaming Live
Number of minutes spent watching Twitch content worldwide
Industry Definition

Statista offers comprehensive data on the video games and gaming industry. In this section, users will find up-to-date information regarding the market size, value, and revenue of the global gaming industry, as well as consumer spending data and other relevant insights into gaming behavior, consumption, and demographics.

The platform contains industry data and financial reports for the leading players in the gaming business. Revenue figures, unit sales, and market shares for various gaming companies are available alongside rankings of the best-selling console, PC, and mobile games worldwide. Statistics on popular gaming platforms, mobile apps, eSports games, and other gaming-related trends and technologies are also provided.
Media

    Audio
    Books & Publishing
    News
    TV, Video & Film
    Video Gaming & eSports

More interesting topics from the industry "Video Gaming & eSports"
(Online) gaming in the Benelux
Activision Blizzard
Artificial intelligence (AI) use in video game development
Bandai Namco
Best-selling video games - top markets
Best-selling video games - top publishers and titles
Call of Duty (CoD)
Chess
Children and media in the U.S.
More interesting topics from the industry "Video Gaming & eSports"
Console Gaming

    CD Projekt
    Console gaming
    Console gaming in India
    Console gaming in Japan
    Game consoles
    Mario gaming franchise
    PlayStation
    Pokémon gaming
    Toys and games in Mexico
    Xbox

eSports

    COVID-19 impact eSports market
    E-sports in Poland
    E-sports in Russia
    E-sports market
    eSports and online gaming in Denmark
    eSports in Europe
    eSports in France
    eSports in India
    eSports in Japan
    eSports in Latin America
    eSports in the U.S.
    eSports in the United Kingdom
    eSports market in Indonesia
    eSports market in Italy
    eSports market in the Asia-Pacific region
    eSports market in Vietnam
    Gaming market in Southeast Asia
    Mobile eSports
    Video gaming market in Asia

Mobile Gaming

    CD Projekt
    Gaming market in Southeast Asia
    In-game advertising in the U.S.
    Mobile app usage of children in the United Kingdom
    Mobile app usage of children in the United States
    Mobile apps in Hong Kong
    Mobile apps in Taiwan
    Mobile eSports
    Mobile games in China
    Mobile gaming habits in the United States
    Mobile gaming in India
    Mobile gaming in Indonesia
    Mobile gaming in Japan
    Mobile gaming in Latin America
    Mobile gaming in South Korea
    Mobile gaming market in the Asia-Pacific region
    Mobile gaming market in the United States
    Mobile gaming market leaders
    Pokémon gaming
    Social casino gaming
    Subscription apps
    Video gaming market in Asia

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Video Gaming & eSports" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

