# Accommodation

Accommodation

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Travel, Tourism & Hospitality
    ›Accommodation

Accommodation

While the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic had an adverse impact on lodging demand across all segments of the accommodation industry, from hotels to peer-to-peer platforms like Airbnb, the severity varied dependent on accommodation type. Local regulations, the need for social distancing, and forced business closures all played their part in varying the impact on lodging businesses. Despite some fairing better than others, most accommodation businesses had to adapt to the changes the pandemic brought along. Some of these adaptations included accelerated digitalization, higher hygiene standards, and increased focus on domestic travel or “staycations”.

These days, larger trends that were already reshaping the accommodation industry prior to the heath crisis have been further cemented. These include digitalization, sustainability, and the demand for authentic, personalized experiences.
Leading hotel and resort company worldwide, by market value
Marriott International Inc.
Main reason travelers stayed in sustainable accommodation
To reduce their impact on the environment
Airbnb revenue worldwide
8.4 bn USD

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Hotel industry worldwide
Airbnb
Travel and tourism worldwide
COVID-19: impact on the tourism industry worldwide
Global Accommodation, Restaurants & Nightlife – Industry Insights & Data Analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Accommodation industry reached its peak prior to COVID-19 pandemic

Market size of the hotel and resort industry worldwide in 2023 and 2024 (in trillion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the hotel and resort industry worldwide in 2023 and 2024 (in trillion U.S. dollars)

Globalization, the rise of the online market, and increasing ease of mobility means tourism has grown exponentially over the past decade. It therefore comes as no surprise that this has also caused growth in the accommodation industry. This is particularly the case in its largest sector, the hotel and resort industry, which has seen a steady upward curve in its market size during this time. The largest decline in size was seen during the coronavirus pandemic.
Accommodation industry worldwide
Accommodation industry in Europe
Accommodation industry in the U.S.
Market segments
Home-sharing’s impact on the accommodation industry

Number of nights and experiences booked on Airbnb from 2019 to 2025, by region (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of nights and experiences booked on Airbnb from 2019 to 2025, by region (in millions)

With home-sharing, or peer-to-peer, services becoming ever more popular with consumers, more traditional modes of accommodation are facing increasing competition. The sharing economy offers consumers the ability not only to stay in people’s homes, but also to make money by sharing their own homes. Competitive prices and lodging ranging from basic to luxury mean that other segments like hotels, hostels, bed and breakfasts, and even campgrounds will need to rethink their business outlook.
Hotel industry worldwide
Airbnb
Camping and RV industry
Industry trends
Sustainability is increasingly important to travelers

Share of travelers that believe it is important to choose a hotel brand that operates responsibly worldwide in 2021
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of travelers that believe it is important to choose a hotel brand that operates responsibly worldwide in 2021

There has been a growing awareness for social and environmental responsibility among travelers in recent years. Lodgers are more aware of issues such as the global rise in greenhouse gas emissions, overcrowding, and a loss of socio-cultural authenticity in host communities, and want to avoid exacerbating these problems. This has resulted in more travelers attempting to book sustainable accommodation.
Sustainable tourism worldwide
Sustainable tourism in the U.S.
Sustainable tourism in Italy
Industry leaders
Hotel companies dominate but Airbnb is hot on their heels

Leading hotel and resort companies worldwide as of April 2025, by sales (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading hotel and resort companies worldwide as of April 2025, by sales (in billion U.S. dollars)

When it comes to accommodation industry leaders, hotel companies take the top spots. Chains such as Marriott International, Hilton Worldwide, and the Wyndham Hotel Group dominate in terms of revenue, units, and brand value. Meanwhile, Airbnb is currently the leader in the home-sharing market, with its revenue and bookings rising steadily up until the coronavirus outbreak.
Marriott International
Hilton Worldwide
Airbnb's revenue worldwide
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The accommodation industry is part of the wider hospitality industry. In its broadest definition, it encompasses many different sectors that offer overnight lodging services. These sectors include hotels, hostels, short-term rentals, holiday homes, RV parks and camping services, and more. There are also other industries working in conjunction with the accommodation industry, for example, food and drink services, and wellness and spas. These individual sectors are subject to different trends - one example that is relevant to all of them is the rise of digitization and the online market. Trend topics can also be more specific, contactless service in the hotel industry being one. These emerging trends are sure to shape the industry's outlook, and the long-term impact of the coronavirus is expected to change the face of the accommodation industry for years to come.
Travel, Tourism & Hospitality

    Accommodation
    Business Travel
    Food & Drink Services
    Leisure Travel

More interesting topics from the industry "Accommodation"
Accommodation in Denmark
Accommodation in France
Accommodation in Indonesia
Accommodation in Malaysia
Accommodation in Norway
Accommodation in Singapore
Accommodation in Sweden
Accommodations in South Korea
Artificial intelligence (AI) use in hospitality
More interesting topics from the industry "Accommodation"
Hostels

    Hotel industry in Taiwan

Hotels

    Accommodation industry in Germany
    Hilton
    Hospitality industry in Canada
    Hotel industry in China
    Hotel industry in Europe
    Hotel industry in France
    Hotel industry in GCC
    Hotel industry in Hong Kong
    Hotel industry in India
    Hotel industry in Saudi Arabia
    Hotel industry in South Africa
    Hotel industry in Taiwan
    Hotel industry in Thailand
    Hotel industry in the Benelux
    Hotel industry in the U.S.
    Hotel industry in the United Kingdom
    Hotel industry worldwide
    Hotel market in Central and Eastern Europe
    Hotel market in Czechia
    Hotel market in Poland
    Hotel market in Romania
    Hotel market in Russia
    Hotels in Denmark
    Hotels in Norway
    InterContinental Hotels Group
    Luxury travel and tourism worldwide
    Marriott International
    Tourism industry in Egypt
    Tourism industry in UAE
    Transport industry in UAE
    Travel accommodation in Australia
    Travel and tourism worldwide

RV Parks & Camping

    Accommodation industry in Germany
    Camping and caravanning in Australia
    Camping in Germany
    Camping in North America
    Camping in the Nordics
    Outdoor activities in Japan
    Travel accommodation in Australia

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Accommodation" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

