# Cyber Crime & Security

Cyber Crime & Security

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Internet
    ›Cyber Crime & Security

Cyber Crime & Security

As internet usage continues to increase, so does the amount of personal information and data that is made available online. This could be out of choice, for example, somebody providing personal details to a social network in order to use their service - or it could be unwillingly, as a victim of a cybercrime attack or data breach. With the development of various AI tools, cyber crime is currently transforming. Therefore, the risks to individuals, companies, organizations, and governments have never been greater.
Share of organizations that pay ransom after a ransomware attack
46%
Cost of cybercrime worldwide
9.22 trillion USD
Global number of unique threats reported by end users in 2023
1.9 million

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Overview
    Financial damage
    Industry trends
    Laws and regulations
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Cybercrime and companies in the United States
Cybercrime and internet users in the United States
Cyber crime in Latin America
Online privacy in the United States
Online privacy in the United Kingdom (UK)
Ransomware
ChatGPT and cybercrime
Malware
Cybercrime and companies in France
Impact of cybercrime on internet users in France
Cybercrime and the financial industry in the United States
Cybercrime and the manufacturing industry worldwide
Cybercrime and internet users in the United States
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Overview
Loss of sensitive information

Most common consequences of sensitive information loss incidents in worldwide organizations in 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most common consequences of sensitive information loss incidents in worldwide organizations in 2023

Cybercrime can take many forms - identity fraud, data theft, ransomware attacks, copyright infringement, and phishing campaigns are just some examples. Organizations consider the loss of personally identifiable information of customers or employees as one of the most dangerous outcomes of cyberattacks. The loss of sensitive information can have serious repercussions for companies, such as damaged reputation and loss in revenue.
Global repercussions of sensitive information loss incidents 2023
Global repercussions of sensitive information loss incidents in 2023
Ransomware attacks
Financial damage
The average cost of a data breach

Average cost of a data breach worldwide from 2014 to 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average cost of a data breach worldwide from 2014 to 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)

Organizations worldwide don't only pay to get back the data lost in cyberattacks they also suffer downtime and disruption in operations caused by cybercrime. The average cost of a data breach worldwide is around 4.35 million U.S. dollars, but financial repercussions differ greatly depending on the region, organization size, and industry. The average cost of a data breach in the healthcare sector is 10.1 million dollars.
Per-record cost of a data breach worldwide in 2023
Cost distribution of data breach worldwide from 2018 to 2023
Cost of a data breach worldwide in 2023, by initial attack vector
Industry trends
Safety of data is a priority

Steps taken by global internet users to protect their personal information online as of January 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Steps taken by global internet users to protect their personal information online as of January 2023

While governments around the world take steps toward improved personal data protection, users are now more aware and interested in minimizing the risks in the online environment. As of 2023, seven in ten internet users stated having taken steps to protect their identity online. At the same time, some users are willing to accept risks for more convenient internet usage. Nearly 70 percent of global respondents said they felt more vulnerable to identity theft now than they did years ago.
Share of internet users who accept online privacy risks for convenience
Share of internet users who feel now more vulnerable to online identity theft
Global online users concerns about misuse of personal data Q3 2020-Q4 2023
Laws and regulations
Laws covering online data privacy

Largest fines issued for General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) violations as of November 2025 (in million euros)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Largest fines issued for General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) violations as of November 2025 (in million euros)

The GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) was introduced in the EU in 2018 in an attempt to better regulate the handling of data and personal information by companies and organizations and to provide greater protection for citizens' rights and privacy. It remains the most comprehensive data privacy regulation globally. In recent years, other countries have developed similar laws protecting users' online information.
GDPR and DPA preparedness level among EU and UK companies 2023
GDPR fines amount by type of violation
Data privacy and security law enforcement cases in the U.S. 2022-2023 YTD
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Statista offers comprehensive data on the ever-evolving issue of cyber crime. In this section, users can find information on the most common types of cyber attacks, the biggest online data breaches, and the regions and industries most targeted by cyber intrusions worldwide.

The database contains statistics on the number of cyber incidents and compromised data records as well as a breakdown of the costs associated with cyber crime and cyber security among companies. These financial figures are further complemented with survey data and other relevant insights into the forms and frequency of cyber bullying among internet users.
Internet

    Communications
    Cyber Crime & Security
    Demographics & Use
    Mobile Internet & Apps
    Online Search
    Online Video & Entertainment
    Reach & Traffic
    Social Media & User-Generated Content

More interesting topics from the industry "Cyber Crime & Security"
App tracking and mobile privacy
Children's safety online
Crime in Japan
Crime in the Philippines
Cyber crime in Australia
Cyber crime in India
Cyber crime in Latin America
Cyber insurance
Cyber security in Finland
More interesting topics from the industry "Cyber Crime & Security"
Cyber Bullying

    Cyberbullying
    Cyberbullying in South Korea
    Social media and teenage mental health

Cyber Crime

    ChatGPT and cybercrime
    Cyber warfare
    Cybercrime and companies in France
    Cybercrime and companies in Italy
    Cybercrime and companies in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Cybercrime and internet users in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Cybercrime and internet users in the United States
    Cybercrime and the manufacturing industry worldwide
    Cybercrime and users in Italy
    Cybercrime in Japan
    Cybercrime in Spain
    Cybersecurity and cybercrime in Indonesia
    Cybersecurity and cybercrime in Singapore
    Cybersecurity in the Asia-Pacific region
    Data breaches worldwide
    Impact of cybercrime on internet users in France
    Internet usage in Romania
    Malware
    Mobile cyberattacks worldwide
    Online fraud in the United States
    Online scams in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Phishing
    Ransomware
    The dark web
    The impact of cybercrime on internet users in Canada

Cyber Security

    Business cybersecurity in the UK
    Cybercrime in Spain
    Cybersecurity and cybercrime in Indonesia
    Cybersecurity and cybercrime in Singapore
    Cybersecurity in the Asia-Pacific region
    E-commerce fraud
    GDPR and personal data in France
    Information security in Japan
    Phishing
    Software industry in Japan
    Timeline of events: TikTok ban in the U.S.

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Cyber Crime & Security" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

