# Demographics & Use

Demographics & Use

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Internet
    ›Demographics & Use

Demographics & Use

The number of internet users worldwide continues to grow. While internet penetration in the most economically developed countries is already nearly 100 percent, there are still billions of people around the world without access. Mobile internet, whether via a high-end smartphone or a cheap feature phone, is transforming how people go online and what the internet can be used for. Many other factors, like age, gender, education, and income, also greatly influence internet access and consumption. Knowing how different demographic groups spend their time online is essential for anyone trying to understand better how internet users and consumers around the world behave.
Number of internet users worldwide
5.3bn
Average time per day spent using the internet worldwide
6:37hrs
Age group that spends most time online
16-24 years

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Demographics
    Industry trends
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Internet usage worldwide
Internet usage in Europe
Mobile internet usage worldwide
Internet usage in India
Internet usage in Brazil
Internet usage in Latin America
Internet usage in the Asia-Pacific region
Internet usage in the United States
Internet usage in Canada
Internet usage in Belgium
Internet usage worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
How internet access varies by world region

Global internet penetration rate as of October 2025, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global internet penetration rate as of October 2025, by region

As of 2024, the global internet penetration rate was over 67 percent. Among global regions, the online penetration rate was highest in Northern Europe and Northern America. The lowest online presence was reported in Middle Africa and Southern Asia. This picture is more likely to be linked to the development of digital infrastructure. However, as technology improves and budget smartphones become more widely available, less developed regions are set to see a huge increase in online users.
Internet usage worldwide
Global mobile traffic share by region
Internet penetration rate in rural and urban areas 2023, by region
Demographics
Gen Z spend the longest time online

Average daily time spent using the internet by 3rd quarter 2024, by age and gender (in hours. minutes)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average daily time spent using the internet by 3rd quarter 2024, by age and gender (in hours. minutes)

Users between 16 and 24 are the most active internet users worldwide. This is unsurprising, as most of this age group are digital natives. Millennials ranked second by the average daily time spent online. Older generations tend to spend relatively less time online. Regarding gender groups, the usage of the internet is almost equal.
Internet usage demographics in the U.S.
Global internet usage rate, by gender and market maturity
Industry trends
Smartphones take up a significant share of devices used to go online

Share of users worldwide accessing the internet in 2nd quarter 2025, by device
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of users worldwide accessing the internet in 2nd quarter 2025, by device

Mobile phones, mostly smartphones, are the most widely used devices for accessing the internet. In the third quarter of 2023, 91 percent of worldwide adults between 16 and 64 years used smartphones for connecting to the internet. Devices like laptops, connected TVs, and tablet devices, lagged behind. Within the last five years, mobile's share of average daily time spent online has decreased by around ten percent.
Share of daily internet time global Q3 2013-Q4 2023, by device
Mobile internet usage worldwide
Internet usage in the United States, by gender
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Statista offers comprehensive data on global internet usage. The platform provides up-to-date information on the size of the global online population, country-specific online penetration rates, and online user demographics.

In this section, users can find a wide range of statistics covering the latest trends in online user behavior. Survey data on internet usage times are available alongside information on the devices and technologies most commonly used to browse the web. In addition, the database also offers relevant insights into popular online activities and identifies the most visited websites, leading social networks, and mobile apps worldwide.
Internet

    Communications
    Cyber Crime & Security
    Demographics & Use
    Mobile Internet & Apps
    Online Search
    Online Video & Entertainment
    Reach & Traffic
    Social Media & User-Generated Content

More interesting topics from the industry "Demographics & Use"
Broadband in the UK
Business digitization in the U.S.
Children's internet usage in Poland
Coronavirus: impact on online usage in the U.S.
Cyber crime in India
Cyber security in India
Digital media usage in South Korea
Digitalization of business in Singapore
E-commerce in Africa
More interesting topics from the industry "Demographics & Use"
Demographics

    Internet usage in Europe
    Internet usage in the Philippines
    Internet usage of teenagers in the United States
    Social media in Belgium
    Social media usage in the Netherlands

Use

    App usage in Japan
    Content regulation in India
    craigslist
    Digital literacy in Europe
    Digital payments in Czechia
    Digital services in Poland
    Digital services in Russia
    E-commerce in Estonia
    E-commerce in Latvia
    E-commerce in Lithuania
    E-commerce in the Baltics
    E-commerce in the United Kingdom (UK)
    E-government in the Benelux region
    E-mail usage in the United States
    Fake news in India
    Foreign languages in Poland
    Internet freedom in India
    Internet freedom worldwide
    Internet usage in Belgium
    Internet usage in Canada
    Internet usage in CEE
    Internet usage in Europe
    Internet usage in Finland
    Internet usage in the Benelux
    Internet usage in the Nordics
    Mini-program platforms in China
    Mobile app usage in Europe
    Mobile apps in China
    Mobile commerce in South Korea
    Mobile social media usage in the United States
    Online dating in India
    Online dating in the United Kingdom
    Online education in Poland
    Online education in Russia
    Online gaming in Japan
    Online shopping in Europe
    Remote work in Poland
    Search engine usage in Japan
    Social media and global conflicts and emergencies
    Social media in Belgium
    Social media usage in the Netherlands
    Video sharing services in Japan
    Virtual YouTubers (VTubers) in Japan

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

