# Mobile Internet & Apps

Mobile Internet & Apps

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Internet
    ›Mobile Internet & Apps

Mobile Internet & Apps

Mobile internet and applications enjoyed an unprecedented peak of usage during the global outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Developers are responding to shifting technological demands, and the rate of mobile consumption has reached unprecedented levels. While growth trends in the mobile app ecosystem have since normalized, on-the-go connectivity remains the new norm even beyond mobile-first markets.
Global mobile internet population
4.24bn
Mobile internet traffic share of global internet traffic
54.67%
Number of mobile app downloads worldwide in 2020
257bn

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry leaders
    Industry trends
    App market
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Mobile internet usage worldwide
Mobile app usage
Mobile app monetization
Mobile payments with digital wallets
Mobile internet usage in the United States
Mobile internet usage in China
App stores
Apple App Store
Google Play Store
App tracking and mobile privacy
Mobile video worldwide
Super apps
Mobile internet usage worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Mobile internet use highest in Africa and Asia

Mobile internet traffic as percentage of total web traffic in November 2025, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Mobile internet traffic as percentage of total web traffic in November 2025, by region

By 2024, mobile internet made up over 73.5 percent of the total regional web traffic in Africa, as well as 69.4 percent of all the online traffic in Asia. Mobile devices' affordability, coupled with the rapid expansion of network infrastructure in developing markets, has led to the development of a buzzing mobile and app ecosystem.
Mobile internet traffic as percentage of total web traffic
Forecast of the mobile internet penetration in India
Mobile Money in Africa
Market segments
App downloads at an all-time global high

Number of mobile app downloads worldwide from 2018 to 2025 (in billions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of mobile app downloads worldwide from 2018 to 2025 (in billions)

The number of mobile app downloads experienced slow growth between 2022 and 2023. In 2023, app downloads grew by only 0.8 percent, compared to the 11 percent growth recorded between 2021 and 2022. Despite slowing growth, the ownership of tablets, wearable tech, and smartphones continues to rise. With the introduction of artificial intelligence, mobile apps are bound to offer even more personalized services to users.
Mobile app usage
Mobile app monetization
Consumer spend on mobile apps
Industry leaders
Android’s market dominance

Market share of mobile operating systems worldwide from 1st quarter 2009 to 4th quarter 2025, by quarter
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market share of mobile operating systems worldwide from 1st quarter 2009 to 4th quarter 2025, by quarter

In recent years, the mobile operating system space has been a battlefield between two giants – iOS and Android. Despite the financial success of Apple’s iOS, Android is more popular because it is the default on cheaper mobile devices. While it may be arguable which platform is the better of the two, Android has dominated the landscape for the last eight years, laying claim to a substantial 71 percent of the global market at the beginning of 2024.
Mobile app consumer spending worldwide, by store
Mobile operating systems
Apple
Industry trends
Mobile privacy and security

Share of organizations worldwide targeted by smishing attacks from 2021 to 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of organizations worldwide targeted by smishing attacks from 2021 to 2023

Mobile devices are not immune to online threats, such as data breaches, phishing attacks, malware, and advertising fraud. The volume of global smishing attacks targeting organizations and companies increased in recent years, with over 76 percent of organizations reporting to have been targeted by phishing attacks sent by SMS on their mobile devices.
Distribution of mobile malware
App tracking and mobile privacy
Data collected by mobile app publishers
App market
App spending surge and normalizing trends

App consumer spending and in-app revenue worldwide from 2021 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic App consumer spending and in-app revenue worldwide from 2021 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The COVID-19 pandemic saw a surge in in-app spending and mobile content consumption. Since 2023, users have been slowly returning to their offline lives, prompting a normalization in download and spending trends worldwide. In 2022, global users spent approximately 167 billion U.S. dollars on mobile apps, almost two percent less than in 2021. In 2023, app spending returned to growing again, as users generated 171 billion U.S. dollars in spending.
Mobile app monetization
Mobile advertising and marketing worldwide
Leading market for mobile apps
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Statista offers comprehensive data on the rapidly changing mobile internet industry. In this section, users can find an overview of the number of mobile internet users, global and regional mobile internet penetration rates, and other relevant insights into the current state of mobile internet adoption.

The database contains a wide range of statistics on mobile internet usage, including user demographics and survey data on popular smartphone activities. Statista also provides market shares for leading mobile operating systems and identifies the world’s most popular apps and app stores based on app store revenues, mobile app downloads, and mobile advertising revenues alike.
Internet

    Communications
    Cyber Crime & Security
    Demographics & Use
    Mobile Internet & Apps
    Online Search
    Online Video & Entertainment
    Reach & Traffic
    Social Media & User-Generated Content

More interesting topics from the industry "Mobile Internet & Apps"
App stores
App tracking and mobile privacy
Apple App Store
ByteDance
DevOps
Digital banks in the UK
Drones in France
E-commerce on Instagram
E-commerce platforms in Vietnam
More interesting topics from the industry "Mobile Internet & Apps"
Apps

    Alipay
    App usage in Japan
    ASO - App Store Optimization
    BeReal
    Bolt
    Coinbase IPO
    Conversational Commerce
    COVID-19 apps
    E-wallets in Vietnam
    Gaming monetization
    Generative artificial intelligence (AI) in South Korea
    Health and fitness apps
    Horoscope and astrology apps
    In-app advertising
    JD.com, Inc.
    Language learning apps
    Leading apps - top titles
    Manga industry in Japan
    Meditation and mental wellness apps
    Meituan
    Messaging apps in Brazil
    Messaging apps in Latin America
    Mini-program platforms in China
    Mobile app publishers
    Mobile app usage in Europe
    Mobile app usage in France
    Mobile app usage of children in the United Kingdom
    Mobile app usage of children in the United States
    Mobile apps in Asia
    Mobile apps in China
    Mobile apps in Hong Kong
    Mobile apps in Indonesia
    Mobile apps in Malaysia
    Mobile apps in Taiwan
    Mobile apps in the UK
    Mobile games in China
    Mobile gaming habits in the United States
    Mobile gaming in India
    Mobile gaming in Indonesia
    Mobile gaming in Japan
    Mobile gaming in South Korea
    Mobile gaming market in the United States
    Mobile gaming market leaders
    Mobile internet and apps in Singapore
    Mobile internet usage in the Netherlands
    Mobile travel trends
    Music industry in Japan
    Music streaming in South Korea
    Online banking in Japan
    Online dating in India
    Online dating in Japan
    Online food delivery in Vietnam
    Photo and image editing apps
    Pinduoduo
    Second-hand mobile shopping apps in South Korea
    Second-hand shopping apps in China
    Social media in Southeast Asia
    Subscription apps
    Super apps
    Talabat
    Telegram
    The Indian App Market
    Timeline of events: TikTok ban in the U.S.
    Voice commerce in the United States
    Webtoon industry in South Korea
    WeChat
    WhatsApp
    WhatsApp in Brazil
    WhatsApp marketing in Brazil

Mobile Internet

    5G in the Asia-Pacific region
    Matrimony.com
    Mobile banking in South Korea
    Mobile communications in the Asia-Pacific region
    Mobile internet usage in China
    Mobile internet usage in Russia
    Mobile travel trends
    Telecommunications industry in the Asia-Pacific region

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

