# Social Media & User-Generated Content

Social Media & User-Generated Content

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Internet
    ›Social Media & User-Generated Content

Social Media & User-Generated Content

Social media and user-generated content define interactive technologies designed to create and share information, ideas, and interests among virtual communities. Social media varies by text posts, images, videos, comments, and network platforms. Social media global penetration reached 62 percent in 2024. Northern and Western Europe had the largest penetration rate, followed by Eastern Asia and Southern Europe.

Social media consistently expands, advances and grows around the world. The total number of social media users is expected to hit over 6.05 billion individuals by 2028, which would be over half of the world population.
Global social media penetration rate
62.2%
Global social media users
5.17bn
Leading reason to use social media
Keeping in touch with friends and family

    Overview
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry leaders
    Industry trends
    landscape
    Industry Definition

Market size
Geographical distribution of users

Number of social network users worldwide as in 2025, by region (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of social network users worldwide as in 2025, by region (in millions)

Asia boasts almost three billion social media users users, making it the continent with largest audience. In fact, in 2023, over 1.2 billion users were in Eastern Asia alone. China was home to over one billion social media users in 2023, and it is expected that by 2029, the number of users in the country will be close to 1.3 billion. However, India is expected to become the largest social media audience within the next few years. 
Social media worldwide
Social media in Asia Pacific
Social media in the United States
Market segments
Types of social media

Number of social media users worldwide from 2017 to 2030 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of social media users worldwide from 2017 to 2030 (in millions)

There is a wide range of social media, but the leading type is social networking. Whether one needs to connect with friends, to follow the news, or to expand one’s business network, Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn keep attracting users. Additionally, social video platforms like YouTube and short-form sensation TikTok have been carving out their space among mainstream social networking platforms. In 2023, TikTok was estimated to count over 1.9 billion users worldwide.
Number of global TikTok users
Facebook
YouTube
Industry leaders
Meta is king

Most popular social networks worldwide as of October 2025, by number of monthly active users (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most popular social networks worldwide as of October 2025, by number of monthly active users (in millions)

Facebook is the biggest existing social network with over three billion monthly active users recorded in early 2024. In 2023, Facebook's parent company Meta reported annual revenues of 133 billion U.S. dollars, more than doubling its revenues in 2018. Despite losing ground to its social video competitors, especially with young audiences, the number of Meta's Family of Apps users -Facebook, Facebook Messenger, Instagram, WhatsApp, and Oculus - has experienced a positive growth trend since 2018.
Facebook
Most used social media platform as of 2023
Meta Platforms
Industry trends
Social media influence

Distribution of TikTok influencers worldwide in 2022, by number of followers
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Distribution of TikTok influencers worldwide in 2022, by number of followers

Digital content creators and influencers are very visible on social media. Short-form videos like Instagram Reels, TikTok, and YouTube Shorts have seen influencers generate billions of views. As of 2022, over 66 percent of content creators on TikTok had between 1,000 and 10,000 followers, while less than one percent reported having over one million followers.
Social media marketing
Online video content creators
Distribution of TikTok influencers worldwide
landscape
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Statista offers a broad range of statistics, facts, and market data on social media and user-generated content. In this section, customers will find up-to-date information on the number of social media users, mobile user shares, and data surrounding online user demographics and behavior.

The platform provides industry data for the world’s most popular social media platforms and apps. It covers key social media metrics, ranging from reach and penetration rates of leading social networks to revenue figures and engagement rates. Breakdowns of the most-followed accounts and channels are also available to provide further insights into the latest social media trends and technologies.
Internet

    Communications
    Cyber Crime & Security
    Demographics & Use
    Mobile Internet & Apps
    Online Search
    Online Video & Entertainment
    Reach & Traffic
    Social Media & User-Generated Content

More interesting topics from the industry "Social Media & User-Generated Content"
2020 Presidential Election and the Media
AI-generated online content (AIGC)
Artificial intelligence (AI) in influencer marketing worldwide
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in the United States
Beauty and personal care e-commerce worldwide
Beauty shopping on social media
BeReal
Bluesky
ByteDance
More interesting topics from the industry "Social Media & User-Generated Content"
Online Dating

    Grindr
    LGBTQI online dating worldwide
    Match Group
    Online dating and matchmaking in China
    Online dating in Brazil
    Online dating in India
    Online dating in Indonesia
    Online dating in Japan
    Online dating in Russia
    Online dating in Singapore
    Online dating in Thailand
    Online dating in the Netherlands
    Online dating in the United Kingdom
    Online dating in the United States
    Online dating worldwide
    Tinder

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

