# Parks & Outdoors

Parks & Outdoors

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Sports & Recreation
    ›Parks & Outdoors

Parks & Outdoors

Outdoor recreation refers to any recreational activity that takes place in an outdoor setting. These activities can be carried out for the enjoyment and challenge, for health and fitness reasons, to develop social and team building skills, and for the appreciation of nature and the outside world.

Parks and outdoor recreational activities have a considerable economic impact on various markets. Amusement and theme parks, for example, generate revenue into the millions, with companies such as Disney and Six Flags leading the way.

Merchandise, recreational vehicles (RV), equipment, food, and other consumables make up most of the remaining income within the industry. Participation rates, attendance, and individual preferences gathered via surveys provide data which helps to support existing and future businesses involved in these fields.
Amusement and theme park company with the highest revenue
Disney
Largest national park worldwide
Northeast Greenland National Park, Greenland
Longest hiking trail worldwide
The Great Trail, Canada

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Parks in the U.S.
National park tourism in the U.S.
Amusement and theme parks worldwide
Amusement and theme parks in Europe
Hunting in the U.S.
Camping in North America
Camping in Germany
Hiking in France
Recreational boating in the U.S.
Recreational fishing in the U.S.
Recreational boating in the UK
Outdoor recreation market in the UK
Parks in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Amusement and theme parks lead the market

Leading selected amusement and theme park companies worldwide in 2023, by revenue (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading selected amusement and theme park companies worldwide in 2023, by revenue (in billion U.S. dollars)

Outdoor recreational activities cover a wide field of interests. From an economic standpoint, amusement and theme parks are of most interest. On a global scale, Disney generates the highest revenue by far, followed by Universal Studios Theme Parks, and OCT Parks in China. Other companies such as SeaWorld Entertainments Group and Six Flags Entertainment Corporation also compare on a financial level.
Amusement and theme parks worldwide
Amusement and theme parks in the U.S.
Amusement and theme parks in Europe
Market segments
Outdoor activities to suit all interests

Most popular recreation activities among campers in North America in 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most popular recreation activities among campers in North America in 2023

Even though amusement and theme parks are economically more impactful, public parks and wildlife also provide opportunities for outdoor recreational activities. Depending on regional circumstances, winter sports, hunting, or camping are possibilities for people to spend time outdoors and spend money on their preferred hobby

Recreational vehicles (RV), fishing equipment, tents, sleeping bags and many more are outdoor products which have a significant impact on this market.
National parks in the U.S.
Winter sports
Hiking in France
Industry trends
More consumers interested in outdoor recreation

Income distribution of campers in North America in 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Income distribution of campers in North America in 2023

One of the results of the pandemic was a rise in interest in outdoor activities like camping and hiking. With many vacation and day-trip options being impacted by hospitality industry closures, consumers took to the great outdoors. This led to increased participation in outdoor activities among higher-income consumers, who may have previously holidayed abroad or participated in other recreational activities, like taking a trip to an amusement or theme park.
Parks in the U.S.
Camping in North America
Attractions in Netherlands
Industry leaders
Disney takes the top spot

Attendance at the Disneyland theme park (Anaheim, California) from 2009 to 2023 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Attendance at the Disneyland theme park (Anaheim, California) from 2009 to 2023 (in millions)

Thanks to its hugely successful amusement and theme parks, Disney is one of the most successful companies in the parks sector. Most public and wildlife parks are endorsed by governmental institutions, so other economic aspects of the industry come from equipment, apparel, and consumables. Nike is by far the leading company for outdoor apparel, with it succeeding mostly in the sports segment, but also in outdoor clothing.
The Walt Disney Company
Outdoor recreation and sporting goods in the U.S.
Nike
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The Parks & Outdoors industry covers markets that are directly connected to recreational activities in the great outdoors. As a result, it spans a few other industries including and travel and tourism, transportation, FMCG (fast moving consumer goods), and accommodation.

Included in this industry are different types of parks and outdoor areas, like amusement and theme parks, public parks, and national or state parks and the activities that one can participate in in these locations. These activities can include, hiking, fishing, camping, and much more. Consumers will also buy products such as equipment, clothing, and recreational vehicles (RV) to enhance their experience of parks and outdoor areas.
Sports & Recreation

    Art & Culture
    Gambling
    Hobbies
    Parks & Outdoors
    Professional Sports
    Sports & Fitness
    Wellness & Spas

More interesting topics from the industry "Parks & Outdoors"
Camping in Japan
eSports market in Indonesia
Hiking in France
Outdoor activities in Japan
Outdoor recreation in Canada
Outdoor recreation in the U.S.
Outdoor recreation market in the UK
Parks in the U.S.
Parks in the United Kingdom
More interesting topics from the industry "Parks & Outdoors"
Land-based Activities

    Camping and caravanning in Australia
    Camping in North America
    Camping in the Nordics
    Hunting in France
    Hunting in the U.S.
    Mountain climbing worldwide
    Ski tourism worldwide

National Parks

    Heritage sites and national parks in Latin America
    National park tourism in the U.S.

Theme Parks & Water Parks

    Amusement and theme parks in Europe
    Amusement and theme parks in South Korea
    Amusement and theme parks in the U.S.
    Amusement and theme parks in the UK
    Amusement and theme parks worldwide
    Amusement parks in Japan
    Disney theme parks
    Visitor attractions in Paris
    Visitor attractions in the Netherlands

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Parks & Outdoors" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

