# Professional Sports

Professional Sports

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Sports & Recreation
    ›Professional Sports

Professional Sports

The professional sports industry is a multi-billion dollar business. Every weekend, fans flock in their thousands to watch their favorite team play, whether it be a soccer match in the English Premier League or a National Basketball Association game. Millions more also tune into the games back home, making the professional sports market a highly lucrative one for broadcasters and advertisers alike. In an increasingly commercialized industry, brands seek to take advantage of the sporting world's biggest names in order to sell their products in stadiums, on television, and on social media.

Following the easing of coronavirus (COVID-19) restrictions worldwide, there is a strong case to suggest that the professional sports industry has bounced back stronger than ever, with record revenues and attendances in a number of key areas.
Most popular sporting event worldwide
Summer Olympic Games
Most valuable sports team worldwide
Dallas Cowboys
Size of sports sponsorship market worldwide
64.8bn USD

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
NFL
National Basketball Association (NBA)
Major League Baseball (MLB)
National Hockey League (NHL)
Major League Soccer
Premier League
Indian Premier League (IPL)
Bundesliga
Soccer
Tennis
Golf
Big Five European soccer leagues
National Football League
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
It's not just sport, it's a billion-dollar industry

Combined revenue of the Big Five soccer leagues in Europe from 1996/97 to 2023/24, with a forecast to 2025/26 (in billion euros)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Combined revenue of the Big Five soccer leagues in Europe from 1996/97 to 2023/24, with a forecast to 2025/26 (in billion euros)

Revenue from the global professional sports market reaches into the billions each year. Much of this revenue is generated through sponsorship, merchandising, and media rights, with the best leagues and competitions being broadcast across the world.

With more money in the industry, teams can afford to spend huge amounts on the very best players. Some of the highest earning sports stars earn millions for their services and through sponsorship deals.
Big Five soccer leagues
Highest paid athletes in the world
NFL total revenue
Market segments
Broadcasters pay the big bucks

Central payments made to Premier League clubs in 2024/25, by club (in million GBP)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Central payments made to Premier League clubs in 2024/25, by club (in million GBP)

With potentially millions of eyes on any given sporting event or match, broadcasters know the value of securing both domestic and overseas rights deals with some of the world's biggest sports leagues.

Ticketing revenue is also a huge part of the industry, with the biggest sports teams selling out their stadiums to thousands of fans every week. For many, nothing quite compares to the excitement of going to a game.
Sports on U.S. TV
Super Bowl TV viewership
Global reach of the FIFA World Cup
Industry trends
Technology enhances the sporting experience

Average number of sports-focused streaming services used by sports fans in the United States in 2022, by age
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average number of sports-focused streaming services used by sports fans in the United States in 2022, by age

Although much of professional sport, including the laws and the whole spectacle, has remained unchanged for decades, recent technological advancements have changed the industry for both the players and the fans. In-stadium experiences such as live player stats and food delivery straight to your seat have changed the way fans watch live sport. Back home, fans can consume professional sport content in a range of ways, from listening to podcasts to watching highlights online or on their phones.
Impact of technology on professional sport
Preferred platform to watch the Super Bowl
Soccer players with the highest following on social media
Industry leaders
Sport's global appeal

Average match attendance in the Big Five soccer leagues in Europe from 2015/16 to 2024/25, by league
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average match attendance in the Big Five soccer leagues in Europe from 2015/16 to 2024/25, by league

The most popular sports leagues are watched by millions across the world. In recent years, the National Football League (NFL) has seen its reach grow massively, with several regular season games now taking place outside of the United States.

In the world of soccer, the Premier League is often touted as the best league in the world. It is the German Bundesliga, however, which typically boasts the highest average per game attendance of the biggest European soccer leagues.
National Football League (NFL)
Premier League
Formula One
Regional overview
Different sports in different regions

Average per game attendance of the four major sports leagues in North America in 2022/2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average per game attendance of the four major sports leagues in North America in 2022/2023

The interest in professional sports leagues varies from region to region. While the Big Four leagues are king in North America, cricket is one of the main passions in other areas of the world, including in parts of Asia and in the UK. The latter is also a hotspot for rugby, which is equally enjoyed in areas of Europe, South America, and Australasia. Soccer nevertheless remains a powerhouse of global professional sport, with its global appeal culminating in the FIFA World Cup every four years.
Indian Premier League
Rugby in the UK
FIFA
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The professional sports industry encompasses mainstream and niche sports from across the world. While some of the big players in the industry include football, basketball, baseball, and soccer, there is also a huge appeal for sports such as cricket and hockey. The industry can also be broken down into the aforementioned team sports, and individual sports such as tennis and golf.

However, the professional sports industry is about much more than just what happens on the pitch. It also includes the fan experience and the incredible revenue potential within the market. Revenue steams from broadcasting rights, sponsorship deals, and ticket sales have transformed professional sports into a multi-billion dollar industry and into an appealing prospect for brands and advertisers alike. For decades, one of the key indicators of success for any given sports league have been the attendance figures, while TV viewership and online engagement have become more recent measures of success.
Sports & Recreation

    Art & Culture
    Gambling
    Hobbies
    Parks & Outdoors
    Professional Sports
    Sports & Fitness
    Wellness & Spas

More interesting topics from the industry "Professional Sports"
2024 Summer Olympics
A.C. Milan
Athletics in the United Kingdom (UK)
Basketball in Italy
Boxing
Climate change and sports
Cricket in the United Kingdom (UK)
Cycling
Cycling in Italy
More interesting topics from the industry "Professional Sports"
American Football

    Arizona Cardinals
    Atlanta Falcons
    Baltimore Ravens
    Buffalo Bills
    Carolina Panthers
    Chicago Bears
    Cincinnati Bengals
    Cleveland Browns
    Dallas Cowboys
    Denver Broncos
    Detroit Lions
    Green Bay Packers
    Houston Texans
    Indianapolis Colts
    Jacksonville Jaguars
    Kansas City Chiefs
    Las Vegas Raiders
    Los Angeles Chargers
    Los Angeles Rams
    Miami Dolphins
    New England Patriots
    New York Giants
    New York Jets
    NFL
    Philadelphia Eagles
    Pittsburgh Steelers
    San Francisco 49ers
    Seattle Seahawks
    Super Bowl
    Super Bowl advertising in the U.S.
    Tampa Bay Buccaneers
    Tennessee Titans
    Washington Commanders

Baseball

    Atlanta Braves
    Boston Red Sox
    Chicago Cubs
    Chicago White Sox
    Cincinnati Reds
    Cleveland Guardians
    Colorado Rockies
    Houston Astros
    Korea Baseball Organization (KBO) league in South Korea
    Los Angeles Angels
    Los Angeles Dodgers
    Major League Baseball (MLB)
    Miami Marlins
    Milwaukee Brewers
    Minnesota Twins
    MLB World Series
    New York Mets
    New York Yankees
    Nippon Professional Baseball
    Oakland Athletics
    Philadelphia Phillies
    San Diego Padres
    San Francisco Giants
    Seattle Mariners
    St. Louis Cardinals
    Tampa Bay Rays
    Texas Rangers
    Toronto Blue Jays
    Washington Nationals

Basketball

    Atlanta Hawks
    Basketball
    Boston Celtics
    Brooklyn Nets
    Charlotte Hornets
    Chicago Bulls
    Cleveland Cavaliers
    Dallas Mavericks
    Denver Nuggets
    Detroit Pistons
    Detroit Tigers
    Gender pay gap in the WNBA and NBA
    Golden State Warriors
    Houston Rockets
    Indiana Pacers
    Los Angeles Clippers
    Los Angeles Lakers
    March Madness
    Memphis Grizzlies
    Miami Heat
    Milwaukee Bucks
    Minnesota Timberwolves
    National Basketball Association (NBA)
    New Orleans Pelicans
    New York Knicks
    Oklahoma City Thunder
    Orlando Magic
    Philadelphia 76ers
    Phoenix Suns
    Pittsburgh Pirates
    Portland Trail Blazers
    Sacramento Kings
    San Antonio Spurs
    Toronto Raptors
    Utah Jazz
    Washington Wizards
    Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA)

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Professional Sports" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

