# Wellness & Spas

Wellness & Spas

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Sports & Recreation
    ›Wellness & Spas

Wellness & Spas

Health and wellbeing has become an increasingly significant consideration in our everyday lives over the past years. As a result, the wellness & spas sector has developed into a multi-billion U.S. dollar industry. Establishments such as massage parlors and nail salons have seen their businesses grow as consumers find ways to unwind from the stress of daily life.

Following the devastating impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, many people became more aware of their physical and mental wellbeing. The closure of health and wellness clubs had a significant impact on the industry and the lasting effect on spas across the world can be seen in more stringent health and sanitary standards. However, only the revenue and performance figures in the coming years will show how significant and long-lasting the effects of the pandemic were on the wellness industry.
Size of the wellness market worldwide
4.27tr USD
Revenue of the spa industry in the U.S.
18.1bn USD
Number of spa visits in the U.S.
173m

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Wellness industry
Workplace health and wellness in the U.S.
Health & fitness clubs
Spa industry
Wellness industry
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Spa industry growth projected post-COVID

Market size of the spa industry worldwide from 2017 to 2024, with a forecast for 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the spa industry worldwide from 2017 to 2024, with a forecast for 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The global market size of the spa industry was expected to grow at an annual rate of 7.6 percent between 2021 and 2030. Estimates suggested that the industry would be worth over 185 billion U.S. dollars worldwide by 2030. This optimistic outlook suggests the public has regained its confidence in visiting health and wellness establishments following the pandemic, especially in the case of nail salons and massage parlors, where close proximity is essential.
Wellness and spa industry
Health and wellness market size
Spa services market size
Market segments
Different ways to relax and unwind

Market size of the massage service sector in the United States from 2012 to 2022, with a forecast for 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the massage service sector in the United States from 2012 to 2022, with a forecast for 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Segments within the wellness & spa industry include day spas, nail salons, massage parlors, and saunas. The massage service sector in the U.S. is worth over 17 billion U.S. dollars, marking a steady increase following a decline during the pandemic. Moreover, the health and wellness spa sector in the U.S. employs over 350 thousand people at over 21 thousand businesses. With millions of spa visits across the U.S. each year, and millions more worldwide, it certainly seems a popular way to unwind.
Key industry data on the health and wellness spa sector in the U.S.
Number of spa visits in the U.S.
Number of employees in the massage service sector in the U.S.
Industry trends
Wellness and work can go hand in hand

Market size of the workplace wellness industry worldwide from 2017 to 2024, with a forecast for 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the workplace wellness industry worldwide from 2017 to 2024, with a forecast for 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)

While many people visit a spa to forget about their work, an increasing number of employers are trying to bring the effects of a trip to the spa into the workplace. In fact, workplace wellness is a booming industry which is estimated to be worth 66 billion U.S. dollars worldwide in 2022. From offering the option of a standing desk, to providing fitness incentives and medical screenings, companies are beginning to realize that a healthy and happy workforce is a productive workforce.
Workplace health and wellness in the U.S.
Leading must have corporate wellness solution programs
Effects of Peloton Corporate Wellness on employee wellbeing
Industry leaders
Market leaders impacted by the pandemic

Number of health clubs in the United States from 2008 to 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of health clubs in the United States from 2008 to 2024

The number of health clubs in the United States has fallen steadily since the coronavirus hit in 2020. Some of the most popular gyms in the country include Planet Fitness, LA Fitness, and 24 Hour Fitness. In fact, Planet Fitness has opened more and more health clubs worldwide in recent years, hitting over 2,250 establishments in 2022. Meanwhile, online and home fitness brand Peloton saw its popularity skyrocket during the pandemic, with fitness fanatics finding new ways of exercising from home.
Most popular gyms in the U.S.
Number of Planet Fitness health clubs worldwide
Peloton
State of the industry

    Health and wellness food trends in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Workplace health and wellness in the U.S.
    Health and wellness food trends in Europe
    Wellness in Japan
    Spa industry

Industry Definition

Wellness is about making healthy lifestyle choices and maintaining both physical and mental wellbeing. In recent years, more people around the world have begun to recognize the importance of wellness – a trend which has seen the value of the industry increase year-on-year. The various segments making up the wellness industry are diverse and include, among others, healthy eating and weight loss, fitness, alternative medicine and the spa industry.

The spa industry encompasses a wide range of activities and includes consumers who require treatment for medical reasons and pain relief, to wanting a sense of relaxation and stress relief, or even just to indulge and pamper.

Another segment of the wellness industry is corporate wellness services, which refer to companies that provide workplace programs to improve or support the health and wellbeing of their employees. Many of these programs are company funded, although some are carrier funded or paid for by employees.
Sports & Recreation

    Art & Culture
    Gambling
    Hobbies
    Parks & Outdoors
    Professional Sports
    Sports & Fitness
    Wellness & Spas

More interesting topics from the industry "Wellness & Spas"
Beauty services in Japan
Fitness industry in China
Fitness industry in Europe
Fitness industry in Latin America
Hot springs in Japan
Spa industry in Hungary
Wellness in Japan
More interesting topics from the industry "Wellness & Spas"
Spas

    Spa industry

Wellness

    Diet and weight-loss market in Japan
    Men's beauty in Japan
    Wellness industry
    Wellness industry in the U.S.
    Wellness industry in the UK
    Yoga

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

