# Skilled Labor

Skilled Labor

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Services
    ›Skilled Labor

Skilled Labor

Skilled labor relies on high skilled/educated individuals who provide services in a wide range of sectors, both as employees in a corporate environment or as freelancers. As more and more individuals worldwide achieve higher education levels, the supply of skilled professionals, especially in sectors such as law and architecture, has increased steadily in recent years. Matching supply and demand is not always easy, and, for this reason among others, many skilled professionals move abroad to look for better job prospects and development opportunities.

As skilled labor relies on knowledge, workers need to be trained regularly to be kept up-to-date with current trends and new technologies, learning and development is crucial. Companies and individuals invest greatly in order to improve themselves and their employees.
Revenue of the legal services sector in the U.S.
348.59bn USD
Number of employees in the security services sector in Japan
1.24m
Architects in the UK
43,900

    Overview
    Legal services
    Security services
    Architecture
    Training and development
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Legal services
Law firms for private and corporate clients

Size of the legal services market worldwide from 2015 to 2023 with a forecast for 2024 and 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Size of the legal services market worldwide from 2015 to 2023 with a forecast for 2024 and 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Legal professionals provide expert services in a range or in a specific area of the law, for instance family law, criminal law, tax law, or corporate law. Big law firms, which offer a wide variety of legal services, share the market with so-called boutique law firms, which are usually smaller in size and focus exclusively on a single area of law. Practicing lawyers are among the highest earning high-skilled professionals and law firms compete fiercely to hire the most promising candidates.
Law firms in China
GenAI usage frequency at law firms worldwide
Online legal services market size in the U.S.
Security services
Security threats: from physical to virtual

Managed security services market size worldwide from 2020 to 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Managed security services market size worldwide from 2020 to 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Security companies provide a variety of services and products, such as security guards and vehicles, alarm systems, cyber security, investigation, and surveillance to monitor places, people, or activities. Investments in R&D are paramount in this sector to enhance security and surveillance capabilities, as emerging new technologies lead to new threats. Data safety and cyber security issues have led to development of a new security branch - IT security - which is growing fast across the world.
Market size of the security services sector in the U.S.
Number of security services companies in the UK
Market size of the information security technology sector worldwide
Architecture
Designing the spaces we live in

Leading architecture firms based on number of architects employed worldwide from 2020 to 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading architecture firms based on number of architects employed worldwide from 2020 to 2023

Architecture is not just designing and supervising the construction of buildings. As they design the spaces we visit and experience everyday, architects need to take into account several factors, such as function, structure, safety, use, durability, sustainability, and so on. In recent years, green and sustainable buildings have become the norm in the sector, with architects now focusing on creating buildings that have the least impact on our planet, using sustainable and reusable materials.
Annual growth of architecture and engineering services worldwide
Green roof market size worldwide
Architecture billings index in the U.S.
Training and development
Updating and improving skills for a changing job market

Market size of the global workplace training industry from 2007 to 2023, with a forecast for 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the global workplace training industry from 2007 to 2023, with a forecast for 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Economies, markets, and technologies develop fast and skilled workers need training in order to keep up with new developments, findings, and trends. The training and development sector has been growing significantly as individuals, and also companies, are constantly looking to improve themselves, and their employees. In particular, over the past years, learning and development has become more and more digital, with a significant growth in the use of technology-assisted teaching.
Number of freelancers in the U.S.
Popular learning technologies in use in the training industry in the U.S.
Talent strategies of learning and development companies worldwide
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Skilled labor refers to the workforce with a high skill level, high education, and high wages that yields substantial economic value through the work performed. Skilled labor involves tasks that demand specific skill sets, training, education, and experience. Examples of skilled labor include physicians, attorneys, engineers, architects, professors, and scientists.
Services

    Business Services
    Skilled Labor

More interesting topics from the industry "Skilled Labor"
Adecco Group
Beauty services and treatments in South Korea
Ceremonial services industry in Japan
Educational business in Japan
Employee benefits in the U.S.
Employment in the Asia-Pacific region
Executive search worldwide
Landscaping services in the U.S.
Law firm diversity in the U.S.
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

