# Water Transport

Water Transport

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Transportation & Logistics
    ›Water Transport

Water Transport

Oceans and waterways are important transport routes for cruise and cargo ships worldwide. In terms of global merchandise, the volume of seaborne trade almost doubled over the past two decades to reach around 11 billion tons loaded. The upward trend correlates with the advent of containerized trade and the streamlining of supply chains between container ports globally. Asia is home to the leading container port locations worldwide: Shanghai and Singapore. By 2021, container throughput at ports is expected to come to around 860 million twenty-foot equivalent units worldwide.
Transport volume of seaborne trade
11bn tons
World's leading ocean freight forwarder
Kuehne + Nagel
Leading container shipping line worldwide
Maersk

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Ocean shipping
Container carriers worldwide
Container port industry in Singapore
Shipbuilding industry worldwide
Cruise shipbuilding industry worldwide
Container freight rates
Largest container ports in the U.S.
Container shipping
A.P. Møller – Maersk A/S
COSCO Shipping
Hapag-Lloyd
Maritime industry in the EU
Container shipping worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Industry trends
The greening of the maritime shipping industry

Number of vessels fitted with exhaust gas cleaning systems (EGCS) worldwide from 2007 to 2020, with a forecast through 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of vessels fitted with exhaust gas cleaning systems (EGCS) worldwide from 2007 to 2020, with a forecast through 2023

The maritime shipping industry produces around 700 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually. The International Maritime Organization (IMO), a specialized United Nations agency, continues to grow efforts to put a halt to a general growing trend in emissions. The IMO introduced a sulfur cap in 2020. As a result, ship operators increased the demand for emission abatement systems in vessels and began switching from using heavy fuel oil to low sulphur fuel oil.
Green maritime shipping worldwide
Climate change in the anthropocene
Carbon dioxide emissions in the maritime shipping industry
Industry leaders
Riding the wave

Leading ship operator's share of the world liner fleet as of December 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading ship operator's share of the world liner fleet as of December 2024

The largest container ship operator is A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S. The Denmark-based company has vessels with a combined capacity of around four million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) in its fleet and holds around 16 percent of the global container shipping fleet. Hoping for improved cost control and capacity utilization, Mærsk partnered up with MSC in 2015 to form the 2M alliance but this alliance will end in 2025. Mærsk’s revenue reached almost 82 billion U.S. dollars in 2022.
Container lines
Container shipping worldwide
Transportation: Water - global 2020
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The water transport category offers data on cargo shipping by sea as well as the movement of cargo by ships and barges on inland waterways. Within this sector, Statista focuses on seaborne trade routes, the merchant fleet, freight rates, and the leading ports worldwide. Information about the different vessel types used in water transport to move various types of commodities is also available. All of this information is complemented with rankings of freight forwarders and ports.
Transportation & Logistics

    Aviation
    Logistics
    Public Transportation & Mobility Services
    Rail Transport
    Vehicles & Road Traffic
    Water Transport

More interesting topics from the industry "Water Transport"
2026 U.S.-Israel war with Iran commodity market
A.P. Møller – Maersk A/S
Container carriers worldwide
Container freight rates
Container shipping
COSCO Shipping
Cruise industry Belgium
Cruise industry in Europe
Cruise industry in the United Kingdom (UK)
More interesting topics from the industry "Water Transport"
Maritime Transport

    Busiest ports in the Netherlands and Belgium
    Container port industry in Singapore
    Crime and piracy in West Africa
    Cruise industry in Germany
    Cruise industry in Italy
    Cruise industry in the Caribbean
    Impact of the Israel-Hamas war on shipping in the Red Sea
    Largest cargo ports in the U.S.
    Largest container ports in the U.S.
    Largest container ports in the world by region
    Largest maritime ports in the EU
    Maritime ports in India
    Maritime ports in Sweden
    Maritime ports in the Nordic region
    Maritime ports in the UK
    Maritime transportation in Japan
    Oil and gas transportation worldwide
    Sea freight industry in the UK

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

