# Family & Friends

Family & Friends

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Life
    ›Family & Friends

Family & Friends

Our relationships with our families and friends are some of the strongest, most important relationships we have in our lives. Humans tend to go to their families and friends for support, love, and acceptance, and friend groups can become a "second family," especially for those without strong bonds to their family. For these relationships, survey data proves to be enlightening on how people view them and their importance in our lives.
Average number of people per family in the U.S.
3 people
Most common answer to what makes a good friendship in Germany
Being there for friends when they need you
Member of the family that Indians think should be primarily responsible for earning money
Both spouses

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Friendships
    Family
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Multifamily homes in the U.S.
Single-family homes in the U.S.
Families in France
Families in the United States
Love and relationships in India
Friendship in Italy
Singles
Divorce in the United States
Weddings and Marriage
Marriage and weddings in the UK
Weddings in Australia
Weddings in South Korea
Families in the United States
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Friendships
Choosing your "second family"

Do you have people in your circle of friends who...?
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Do you have people in your circle of friends who...?

Many consider their friends to be their "second family," and may even have more frequent contact with their friends than their families. Friend groups provide social interactions and a listening ear when in need, and can be a supportive environment. Friendships also provide differing perspectives and opportunities for personal growth, as well as diversity that one may not be exposed to with a familial group.
Friendships in Italy
Opinions on friendship
Friendship in the workplace
Family
Your first relationships

Average number of people per family in the United States from 1960 to 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average number of people per family in the United States from 1960 to 2023

The first relationships many people find themselves exposed to are those within the family unit. Families help to provide context for the world around us, can influence our outlooks and ways of thinking, and provide insight into societal structure. Many consider families to be the building blocks of society, and great importance is placed on supporting familial structures.
Family and financials support in the UK
Families in France
Multifamily homes in the U.S.
State of the industry

    Multifamily homes in the United States
    Single-family homes in the United States
    Families in France
    Families in the UK
    Single Parents in the U.S.

Industry Definition

Statista's coverage of Family & Friends looks at a broad range of topics. From most popular names, to opinions on family size, and parenting methods, we provide a nuanced look at all aspects of these relationships. Additionally, Family & Friends covers aspects of parenting, some holiday traditions, and generational differences.
Life

    Celebrities
    Family & Friends
    Love & Sex
    Personality & Behavior
    Public and religious holidays

More interesting topics from the industry "Family & Friends"
Baby food market in Latin America
Child care in Japan
Children in Poland
Families in France
Families in Japan
Families in the United States
Family and marriage in the Middle East
Fertility decline in Japan
Foster care and adoption in the United States
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

