# Personality & Behavior

Personality & Behavior

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Life
    ›Personality & Behavior

Personality & Behavior

Personality and behavior are very popular topics both in scientific and general discussions. Even if it is a subjective matter, studies can find out, for example, what are the most common fears or preferences among the population. For instance, global research reveals that we find poverty and social inequality, unemployment, crime and violence, corruption, healthcare, and education to be the topics we worry about most. The issue of fighting inequalities has been the subject of many surveys. Worldwide, people believe that more female presence in government and politics as well as equal access to education will help to end gender-related disparities.
Most common worries worldwide
Poverty and social inequality
Countries most concerned about climate change
Australia, Germany, China
Countries most concerned about immigration
Germany, United States, Belgium

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Fear & anxiety
    Preferences & Aversions
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Teenagers in the United States
Cannabis in Latin America
Conspiracy theories
Women in Germany
Patriotism in the U.S.
Millennials
Generation Z in the United States
Public opinion on climate change in the U.S.
Abortion in the U.S.
Veganism and vegetarianism in the UK
Generation Z in Australia
Smoking in the UK
Eco-anxiety in Canada
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Fear & anxiety
Conspiracy theories

Share of adults who believe global warming is happening in the United States from 2008 to 2025
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of adults who believe global warming is happening in the United States from 2008 to 2025

A conspiracy theory arises from the belief that certain events are the results of actions of powerful or influential groups kept hidden from the public eye. Among the most famous conspiracy theories, we find those on moon landing, vaccination, aliens in Area 51, 9/11, climate change, and so on. Indeed, about a quarter of Americans believe that global warming was not happening in the United States.
London terrorist attacks
COVID-19 conspiracy
Climate change as a hoax
Preferences & Aversions
What people understand as human rights

Best countries according to the Human rights and rule of law index as of 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Best countries according to the Human rights and rule of law index as of 2024

Human rights are rights that belong to every single individual on earth regardless of nationality, ethnicity, gender, language, etc. This includes the right to life, the freedom from torture, the right to education, freedom of speech, and many more. However, these ideals do not reflect the actual status of people living worldwide. Among others, this happens because the understanding of human rights is not the same from country to country, or even from person to person.
The right to own guns
Abortion as a human right
Freedom of speech online
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The category personality & behavior includes the results of a broad variety of surveys. The category collects data on ethical states, spiritual beliefs, personality traits, major fears, psychological well-being, and so on. Some of the most popular statistics are positions on LGBTQ rights, worries about future events, such as war, climate change, and human rights. Additionally, various studies can be found on millennials, teenegers, spiritual beliefs, patriotism, and more.
Life

    Celebrities
    Family & Friends
    Love & Sex
    Personality & Behavior
    Public and religious holidays

More interesting topics from the industry "Personality & Behavior"
Affluents in the United States
Art and culture industry in Japan
Body modification in the United States
Cannabis in Latin America
Cannabis in Uruguay
Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Thailand
Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Vietnam
Customer satisfaction in Japan
Death in Canada
More interesting topics from the industry "Personality & Behavior"
Anxiety & Fear

    Conspiracy theories
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in India
    Eco-anxiety in Canada
    Eco-anxiety in France
    Mental health in China
    Mental health in Japan
    Suicide in Japan

Preferences & Aversions

    Aesthetic medicine in Japan
    Beauty and personal care industry in India
    Beauty industry in Japan
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) - consumer sentiment and wellbeing in India
    Dining out in South Korea
    Discrimination in Canada
    Music streaming in South Korea

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

