# Public and Religious Holidays

Public and Religious Holidays

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Life
    ›Public and religious holidays

Public and religious holidays

Public and religious holidays differ from country to country, and the number of holidays is not the same anywhere. While some holidays are country-specific, others cover broader geographical areas. Some holidays like Christmas and Ramadan relate to certain religions or beliefs, while others such as Valentine's Day are newer and see increased popularity across the globe.
Number of people celebrating Ramadan worldwide
2bn
Number of domestic tourists during Spring Festival in China
308m
Most popular national or religious event in the U.S.
Memorial Day

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Christmas
    Ramadan
    Lunar New Year
    Valentine's Day
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
National holidays in the United States
Holiday season in Canada
U.S. Christmas season shopping
Christmas season in Europe
Christmas shopping in Latin America
Ramadan
Ramadan in Southeast Asia
Ramadan
Thanksgiving
Valentine's Day in the U.S.
Lunar New Year in China
Christmas season shopping in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Christmas
The largest religious holiday

Amount of money consumers in the United States expected to spend on holiday gifts from 2006 to 2025 (in U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Amount of money consumers in the United States expected to spend on holiday gifts from 2006 to 2025 (in U.S. dollars)

With nearly 2.4 billion practitioners, Christianity is the world's largest religion. Naturally, Christmas is considered the biggest religious event worldwide, but it is not celebrated the same way everywhere. While Christmas is still connected to traditions around food and music, consuming generally continues increasing all over the world around December.
Christmas in Europe
Christmas in the U.S.
Christmas in Latin America
Ramadan
The most sacred month

Length of fasting for Ramadan for Muslims worldwide on March 4th, 2026, by selected locations (in hours)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Length of fasting for Ramadan for Muslims worldwide on March 4th, 2026, by selected locations (in hours)

Ramadan is celebrated in the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar. Contrary to Christmas, which is on a set day each year, Ramadan shifts every year. The end of Ramadan is marked with Eid al Fitr - a three-day festival full of food, family, and friends.
Ramadan
Ramadan in Southeast Asia
Lunar New Year
The Chinese New Year

Number of tourist arrivals in China during Chinese New Year in 2025, by leading region (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of tourist arrivals in China during Chinese New Year in 2025, by leading region (in millions)

Also known as the Spring Festival, Lunar New Year is arguably the most important festival in China. Tourism is an industry which typically enjoys a skyrocketed growth for the long holiday, as the largest human migration in the world each year takes place around the time of the Chinese New Year.
Chinese New Year
Valentine's Day
A growing holiday

Share of consumers who plan to celebrate Valentine's Day in the United States from 2007 to 2026
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of consumers who plan to celebrate Valentine's Day in the United States from 2007 to 2026

While Valentine's Day is not a public holiday in any country, it is recognized as an important romantic and commercial holiday in a growing number of countries around the world. Although traditions differ, Valentine's Day commonly celebrates romantic love.
Valentine's Day in the U.S.
Valentine's Day in Italy
Valentine's Day in the Netherlands
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The public and religious holidays category offers data on various important holidays worldwide and in specific countries. Within this category, Statista provides information about religious holidays such as Christmas, Ramadan, and Lunar New Year. Additionally, data on holidays such as Thanksgiving, Valentine's Day, and Halloween is also covered.
Life

    Celebrities
    Family & Friends
    Love & Sex
    Personality & Behavior
    Public and religious holidays

More interesting topics from the industry "Public and religious holidays"
Carnival in Brazil
Carnivals
Christmas gift shopping in France
Christmas season in Europe
Christmas season in the United Kingdom
Christmas shopping in Latin America
Christmas shopping in Spain
Christmas shopping in the United Kingdom (UK)
Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos)
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

