# TV, Video & Film

TV, Video & Film

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Media
    ›TV, Video & Film

TV, Video & Film

Video streaming is a large part of the film industry’s present and future. In recent years, several new platforms have been launched, and people can watch content on every device they want – from mobile devices to large TV screens. This is a development that has been anticipated for a long time as consumers are turning away from watching their favorite TV shows and movies on traditional TV, such as cable or satellite TV. While the subscription-based business model has been struggling lately in light of an increasing inflation and rising costs, ad-supported video streaming content is gaining in popularity, with a forecast suggesting that the revenue is forecast to almost double between 2023 and 2029. Compared to that, the cinema industry still has to catch up with pre-pandemic times, with an estimated box office of 34.5 billion U.S. dollars in 2023, compared to over 42 billion U.S. dollars recorded in 2019.
Number of global pay TV subscribers
985m
Leading film market
United States
Global OTT video revenue
288bn USD

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Television industry in India
Film industry in English-speaking West Africa
Subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) in the Asia-Pacific region
Cinema and film industry in Australia
Animation industry in France
Pay TV in Latin America
Television industry in Europe
Video streaming in the United Kingdom
Netflix usage in the United States
Ad-supported video-on-demand market in Europe
Film industry in the Netherlands
Video game adaptations
Is Disney losing its magic?
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
China’s film industry rivals Hollywood

Estimated filmed entertainment revenue in selected countries worldwide in 2026 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Estimated filmed entertainment revenue in selected countries worldwide in 2026 (in million U.S. dollars)

The global filmed entertainment market, which includes cinema, both physical and digital home video, as well as TV, is expected to rebound from the pandemic and garner a total revenue exceeding 100 billion U.S. dollars by 2026. Not surprisingly, the United States are predicted to hold the highest market share worldwide at about one third of the total revenue. China is expected to consolidate its position in second place with a projected increase of 50 percent between 2021 and 2026.
Film industry in China
Box Office in the U.S.
Movie Industry
Market segments
While streaming surges, cinema continues to rebound

Revenue in the TV & Video market for different segments Worldwide from 2020 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue in the TV & Video market for different segments Worldwide from 2020 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The global traditional TV and home video market recently declined, while the digital segment grew significantly, surpassing DVD and Blu-ray sales in the past decade. In 2019, the revenue of OTT video revenue also outpaced box office results. Additionally, the coronavirus outbreak decimated the cinema industry, whereas digital in-home entertainment reaped the benefits. However, the theatrical market was on the rebound recently, despite not reaching pre-pandemic figures.
Video streaming worldwide
Box office worldwide
Television industry worldwide
Industry trends
SVOD’s response to subscriber and income losses

Revenues of selected hybrid video-on-demand (HVOD) services worldwide in 2029, by plan type (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenues of selected hybrid video-on-demand (HVOD) services worldwide in 2029, by plan type (in billion U.S. dollars)

With prices of streaming services growing, consumers are canceling their SVOD subscriptions more often and using ad-supported streaming offers instead. Due to this shift, several providers have recently been struggling. In order to minimize churn and income losses, streaming companies launched their own lower-cost ad-funded tiers, with a forecast suggesting that hybrid video-on-demand revenues of Netflix, Disney+, Paramount+, and Max would amount to over 20 billion U.S. dollars in 2029.
Netflix
Paramount+
Disney+
Industry leaders
Disney - from a cartoon studio to a mass media conglomerate

Revenue of Walt Disney from 2006 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of Walt Disney from 2006 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)

As of 2023, the Walt Disney Company generated a revenue of about 90 billion U.S. dollars, thus cementing the company’s status as one of the market leaders in the motion picture world. Not only well known for its film studios, for instance Pixar and Marvel, as well as worldwide parks and resorts, the global player is also famous for its TV networks and hybrid video streaming platform Disney+. In the second quarter of 2024, the service had over 150 million subscribers.
Disney
Movie industry in the U.S. and Canada
Animation industry
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The TV, video, and film category offers relevant insights into the ever-changing landscape of visual entertainment. It provides comprehensive industry data on traditional and online television, leading broadcasters, the global film industry, and digital video content.

Statista gathers the latest financial data on box office revenue, industry market share, and TV to SVOD subscription figures in addition to compiling reach and penetration rates for various technologies and devices. Based on these performance indicators, Statista identifies the world’s leading film studios, media conglomerates, and popular streaming services and compliments these facts with information on trends in viewing behavior.
Media

    Audio
    Books & Publishing
    News
    TV, Video & Film
    Video Gaming & eSports

More interesting topics from the industry "TV, Video & Film"
Animation in South Korea
Animation industry
Animation industry in France
Anime industry in Japan
Box office in the U.S. and Canada
Box office worldwide
Cable news
Cable TV in the United States
Cinema industry in France
More interesting topics from the industry "TV, Video & Film"
Cinema & Film

    Academy Awards
    AI use in cinema
    AMC Theatres worldwide
    Barbenheimer
    Cinema and film industry in Australia
    Cinema attendance recovery drivers
    Cinema chains in the United States and Canada
    Cinema in Brazil
    Cinema in Canada
    Cinema in Mexico
    Cinema in Poland
    Cinema in Romania
    Cinemas in South Korea
    Concert movies
    Event industry in the Netherlands
    Film industry in China
    Film industry in English-speaking West Africa
    Film industry in Europe
    Film industry in Finland
    Film industry in Italy
    Film industry in Japan
    Film industry in Latin America
    Film industry in Norway
    Film industry in Russia
    Film industry in South Korea
    Film industry in Spain
    Film industry in Sweden
    Film industry in the Netherlands
    Film industry in the UK
    Film industry in the United States & Canada
    French movies and TV shows exports
    Gen Z movie consumption in the United States
    Horror movies
    Independent movies
    KPop Demon Hunters
    Marvel
    Media piracy in France
    Movie loyalty programs in the U.S.
    Movie studios in the U.S. & Canada
    Music industry in Spain
    Musical movies
    Physical movies
    Star Wars
    Superhero movies
    Universal Pictures
    Video game adaptations
    Warner Bros. Discovery

TV

    Big Brother in Brazil
    Binge-viewing in the U.S.
    Broadcasting industry in the United States
    Cairo Communication
    Children and media in the U.S.
    Connected TV in India
    Cord-cutting in the United States
    Eurovision Song Contest
    Film industry in Japan
    French movies and TV shows exports
    Game of Thrones
    Hulu
    Linear TV and video streaming in the Benelux
    Media companies in Canada
    Media piracy in France
    Mediaset Group
    Mobile gaming in France
    Online mass media industry
    Online TV in the United States
    Online video in Belgium
    Pay TV in Argentina
    Pay TV in Brazil
    Pay TV in Chile
    Pay TV in Europe
    Pay TV in India
    Pay TV in Latin America
    Pay TV in Mexico
    Pay TV in Peru
    Pay TV in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Pay TV in the United States
    Pay TV worldwide
    Public broadcasting in France
    Public service television in Sweden
    Rai (Radiotelevisione Italiana)
    Reality TV in France
    Sports on TV
    Sports viewership in India
    Streaming in Poland
    Subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) in the Asia-Pacific region
    Super Bowl
    Television advertising in the U.S.
    Television consumption in France
    Television consumption in Hungary
    Television entertainment in India
    Television in Benelux
    Television in Canada
    Television in Denmark
    Television in Germany
    Television in Poland
    Television in Russia
    Television in Scandinavia
    Television in Sweden
    Television in the United States
    Television industry in Europe
    Television industry in Finland
    Television industry in India
    Television industry in Indonesia
    Television industry in Italy
    Television industry in Japan
    Television industry in Portugal
    Television industry in South Korea
    Television industry in Spain
    Television industry in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Telewizja Polska (TVP)
    TV advertising in Europe
    TV advertising in France
    TV advertising in Germany
    TV advertising in South Korea
    TV advertising in the United Kingdom
    TV advertising worldwide
    TV market in Norway
    TV news in the U.S.
    TV shows in France
    Video game adaptations
    Video games in Germany
    Video streaming in Germany
    Video streaming industry in Australia
    Vivendi

Video Streaming

    Ad-supported video-on-demand in the United States
    Ad-supported video-on-demand market in Europe
    AI in video streaming in the United States
    Amazon Prime Video
    Big Brother in Brazil
    Broadcaster video-on-demand in Europe
    Broadcaster video-on-demand in the United Kingdom
    Connected TV in India
    Connected TV viewership in the United States
    Content strategies of video streaming services
    Cord-cutting in the United States
    Credential sharing in VOD business in the U.S.
    CTV advertising in the U.S.
    CTV advertising worldwide
    Digital media in Russia
    Disney Plus
    E-sports in Russia
    Free ad-supported streaming TV advertising in the United States
    Free ad-supported streaming TV in Canada
    Free ad-supported streaming TV in Europe
    Free ad-supported streaming TV in the United States
    Gen Alpha video streaming consumption in the United States
    Gen Z video streaming consumption in the United States
    Hulu
    Hybrid video-on-demand services in the United States
    KPop Demon Hunters
    Localized and culturally relevant video streaming content
    Max
    Micro dramas in China
    Netflix
    Netflix advertising
    Netflix in Europe
    Netflix in Sweden
    Netflix usage in the United States
    Online TV in the United States
    Online video market in South Korea
    Online video usage in the Nordics
    Online videos in China
    Paramount Plus
    Premium video-on-demand in the United States
    Sports streaming in Europe
    Sports streaming in the United States
    Sports viewership in India
    Star Wars
    Streaming in Canada
    Streaming in Japan
    Streaming in the Asia-Pacific region
    Streaming industry in India
    Streaming services advertising in the United States
    Streaming worldwide
    Subscription services in Australia
    Subscription video-on-demand in Brazil
    Subscription video-on-demand in France
    Subscription video-on-demand in Latin America
    Subscription video-on-demand in Mexico
    Subscription video-on-demand in Scandinavia
    Subscription Video-on-Demand in Sweden
    Subscription video-on-demand in the United States
    Subscription video-on-demand market worldwide
    Subscription video-on-demand services in Europe
    Subscriptions in Japan
    SVOD services in China
    Television industry in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Transactional video-on-demand in the United States
    Viaplay
    Video on demand in Hungary
    Video streaming bundles and consolidations in the United States
    Video streaming experience and preferences in the United States
    Video streaming in Benelux
    Video streaming in Canada
    Video streaming in Denmark
    Video streaming in Europe
    Video streaming in Norway
    Video streaming in Spain
    Video streaming in Sweden
    Video streaming in the Netherlands
    Video streaming in the United Kingdom
    Video streaming in the United States
    Video streaming worldwide
    Video-on-demand (VOD) services in Japan
    Video-on-demand in France
    Video-on-demand in Italy
    Video-on-demand in Poland
    Video-on-demand in Russia

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

