# Farming
(بانتظار المحتوى...)
Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Agriculture
    ›Farming

Farming

Advancing technology and new farming methods offer a new approach to agricultural production with the potential to drastically change its effect on the environment. From drones and satellites to IoT and Artificial Intelligence, technological innovation is reshaping the farming industry. The global smart farming market has been steadily growing over the last years and is projected to grow even faster in the coming years.

Indoor farming is another popular farming alternative which reduces the reliance on weather, skilled labor, high soil fertility, and water consumption. It allows for a more consistent and reliable yield throughout the year and minimizes the chance of negative effects from disease or pests. The ability to use vertical space and reduce the need for additional land and construction activity contributes to the appeal of vertical farming in large cities. The market is most prominent in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region.
Projected global indoor farming market in 2032
96.7bn USD
Share of the Aeroponics market worldwide
48.5%
Most influential agricultural tech innovation
Internet of Things (IoT)

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Grain market overview
    Livestock farming segment
    Industry trends
    Regional overview
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Corn in the U.S.
Wheat worldwide
Vegetable oils and fats
Dairy industry in Europe
Meat industry in China
Organic farming in the U.S.
Indoor farming
Hog and pig farming in the U.S. and worldwide
Farming in India
Global Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing – Industry Insights & Data Analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Grain market overview
Global grain production has shown resilience to economic shocks

Total global grain production from 2008/2009 to 2025/2026 (in billion metric tons)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Total global grain production from 2008/2009 to 2025/2026 (in billion metric tons)

Global grain production in 2023/24 was expanded by 70 million tons, to 2,3 million tons, mainly tied to an increase in wheat and corn production. The EU yielded about 134 million tons of wheat in 2022/23 accounting for about one-fifth of the world's wheat production.

The Russian invasion of Ukraine and the pandemic have both impacted food commodity prices around the world. Prices have risen even higher than during the global food crisis between 2010 and 2011.
Global rice market
Worldwide wheat overview
Global food price index
Livestock farming segment
Increasing worldwide meat production

Leading beef and veal producing countries worldwide in 2024 and 2025 (in 1,000 metric tons)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading beef and veal producing countries worldwide in 2024 and 2025 (in 1,000 metric tons)

Rapid changes in human demographics and eating habits have led to substantial increases in livestock production. Cattle meats such as beef and veal are some of the most widely consumed types of meat across the globe. The United States is the top producer of beef and veal, with more than 30 million cattle slaughtered annually. Pork is widely consumed and produced in China and Europe. As of April 2024, China was home to the largest number of pigs with over 434 million heads.
Global meat industry
U.S. beef market
Hog and pig farming
Industry trends
Technology has entered the farming sector

Size of the autonomous agriculture equipment market in 2021 and 2027, by application (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Size of the autonomous agriculture equipment market in 2021 and 2027, by application (in billion U.S. dollars)

Farm equipment has probably had the most significant impact on how farmers raise crops and care for livestock. In addition to tractors, combines, and robotic milk machines, smart farming solutions could completely change operations in arable farming. The market share for drones in smart farms was about 11 percent worldwide. The agricultural internet of things (IoT) in Europe is expected to grow from over one billion in 2021 to 2.06 billion U.S. dollars by 2025.
Smart agriculture
Indoor farming
Regional overview
Europe has a large and mature market for fruit and vegetables

Import value share of fresh fruit and vegetables of Europe and rest of the world in 2021*
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Import value share of fresh fruit and vegetables of Europe and rest of the world in 2021*

Market size and demand of fresh fruit and vegetables in Europe has brought an opportunity for large external suppliers especially in developing countries. Europe is responsible for half of all global fresh fruit and vegetable trade. Germany and the Netherlands are the leading importers in this market. In 2021, Germany imported 12.6 billion euros of fresh fruit and vegetables. The largest annual fruit harvest occurs in Asia. China alone produces over 250 million metric tons of fruit annually.
Fruit market in Europe
Global fruit production
Vegetable industry
Industry definition

Farming is one of the oldest businesses and comprises the cultivation of crops and livestock for food or use as biofuel. Major crops include corn, soybean, hay, rice, and wheat. The livestock sector mainly concentrates on cattle and dairy farming, hog and pig farming, poultry and egg production, and sheep and goat farming.

Common farming methods include conventional and organic farming. Conventional farming is the main farming method used during the 20th century and still dominates most farming today. Depending on national regulations, farmers are allowed to use chemical plant protectors and chemical fertilizers. Intensive mass livestock breeding is widely practiced. In contrast, the organic farming sector sets higher animal- and plant-friendly standards. Specific laws regulate organic crop production and livestock breeding. They dispense the use of chemical fertilizer and use natural fertilizers and pesticides instead.
Agriculture

    Farming
    Fisheries & Aquaculture
    Forestry

More interesting topics from the industry "Farming"
Agri-food products with signs identifying quality and origin in France
Agriculture in Algeria
Agriculture in Australia
Agriculture in Israel
Agriculture in Latin America
Agriculture in Myanmar
Agriculture in New Zealand
Agriculture in Nigeria
Agriculture in Portugal
More interesting topics from the industry "Farming"
Crop Production

    Agricultural chemical industry worldwide
    Agriculture in Brazil
    Agriculture in Egypt
    Agriculture in Germany
    Agriculture in Ukraine
    Avocado industry in Latin America
    Avocado industry in Mexico
    Avocado industry worldwide
    Banana industry in Latin America and the Caribbean
    Bioenergy crops worldwide
    Cassava industry in Thailand
    Cereals in France
    Champagne in France
    Coffee industry in Colombia
    Coffee industry in Latin America and the Caribbean
    Coffee market in China
    Coffee market in India
    Coffee market in the United States
    Corn in the U.S.
    Cotton in the United States
    Crop insurance in the United States
    Fertilizer industry in the UK
    Fertilizer industry worldwide
    Fruit consumption in France
    Genetically modified (GM) crops in Canada
    Genetically modified crops
    Grain market in Ukraine
    Grains and cereals market in Argentina
    Indoor farming
    Livestock sector in South Korea
    Organic farming in Germany
    Palm oil industry in Indonesia
    Palm oil industry in Latin America and the Caribbean
    Palm oil industry in Malaysia
    Palm oil industry in Thailand
    Pesticides in Europe
    Potash industry worldwide
    Potato industry in the U.S.
    Potato market France
    Quinoa market
    Rice
    Rice in the Philippines
    Rice market in India
    Rice market in Japan
    Rice market in South Korea
    Soybeans in Brazil
    Sugar in the Philippines
    Sugar industry
    Sugar industry in the UK
    Sugar market in India
    The Super Bowl effect on Mexican avocados
    The tobacco industry in Spain
    The tobacco industry in the UK
    The tobacco sector in France
    Tobacco industry worldwide
    Vegetable industry in France
    Wheat in the U.S.
    Wheat market in India
    Wheat worldwide
    Wine industry in Brazil
    Winemaking in Germany
    Yerba mate industry in Latin America

Livestock

    Agriculture in Brazil
    Agriculture in Egypt
    Agriculture in Germany
    Agriculture in Ukraine
    Arla Foods
    Cheese in France
    Cheese market in Canada
    Dairy industry in Canada
    Dairy industry in Finland
    Dairy market in France
    Dairy market in South Korea
    Egg industry in the U.S.
    Foie gras in France
    Grass-fed beef market worldwide
    Livestock and poultry sectors in the Philippines
    Livestock sector in Indonesia
    Livestock sector in Japan
    Livestock sector in Thailand
    Livestock sector in the GCC
    Meat consumption and vegetarianism in Europe
    Meat industry in Canada
    Meat industry in China
    Meat industry in Japan
    Meat market in South Korea
    Milk market in the UK
    Organic farming in Germany
    Pork in the United Kingdom
    Poultry in the United Kingdom
    Poultry industry in Canada
    Poultry industry in the United States
    Soybeans in Brazil

Organic

    Agriculture in Germany
    Organic farming in Australia
    Organic farming in Finland
    Organic farming in Germany
    Organic farming in Japan
    Organic food market in France
    Organic food market in India
    Organic food market in Japan

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Farming" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

