# Consumer Electronics

Consumer Electronics

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Technology & Telecommunications
    ›Consumer Electronics

Consumer Electronics

Consumer electronics (CE) refers to devices used for communication, entertainment, or information purposes. The industry's continuous growth and innovation solidify its prominent role in the tech landscape, providing both enhanced existing devices and new, groundbreaking products. Today, CE form a multibillion-dollar industry, offering an array of interconnected devices and services. The industry is extremely competitive, with new companies always entering the market and competing with major players, like Apple, Samsung, and Sony.

The CE industry has shown resilience and growth potential despite recent challenges, such as the global economic slowdown in 2022. TV sales are expected to rise due to technology advancements, while AI developments and innovative designs will drive the growth of the smartphone market. Wearables like smartwatches and earwear are also gaining popularity, while AR glasses, VR headsets, and AI gadgets represent newer segments within the market.
Global spending on CE devices 2023
685bn USD
CE market volume 2023
8.3bn units
CE market leader
Apple

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Unique aspect of the industry
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Smartphones
Smart and connected TVs
Display technology
PCs
Tablets
Wearables
Smart speakers
Cameras
Internet of Things (IoT)
Apple
Samsung Electronics
LG Electronics
Security of consumer tech devices
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
A trillion-dollar consumer market

Revenue in the consumer electronics market worldwide from 2018 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue in the consumer electronics market worldwide from 2018 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Although the CE market often seems saturated, given the multitude of products and companies involved, firms consistently strive for innovation by releasing new and updated devices, which are critical drivers of growth in this sector. After a slight revenue decline in 2022, the consumer electronics market size is forecast to steadily increase in the coming years, generating revenues of approximately 1.13 trillion U.S. dollars in 2025 and recording a growth rate of three percent.
Consumer electronics market overview
Consumer electronics retailers worldwide
Consumer electronics market in the United States
Market segments
Smartphones leading in retail sales

Consumer electronics market revenue worldwide in 2024, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Consumer electronics market revenue worldwide in 2024, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)

The CE market encompasses various submarkets, each attracting a significant number of customers. Among the most popular products are televisions, personal computers (PCs),smartphones, tablets, wearables (e.g., smartwatches and fitness trackers), hearables (e.g., headphones and earbuds), speakers, cameras, gaming consoles, and extended reality (XR) devices. Smartphones are the most profitable devices in the CE industry, with around 1.2 billion units shipped globally in 2023.
Smartphones in the U.S.
TV technology
Drones
Industry trends
Exploring the world with VR and AR

Immersive technology consumer market revenue worldwide from 2018 to 2023, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Immersive technology consumer market revenue worldwide from 2018 to 2023, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)

Immersive technologies and new realities are being developed — all encompassed under the umbrella term extended reality (XR). XR is an umbrella term for all immersive technologies including augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), and mixed reality (MR), plus those that are yet to be created. XR technologies extend the reality we experience by either merging the virtual and “real” worlds or by creating a fully immersive experience.
XR: AR, VR, and the metaverse
VR headsets
Augmented reality
Industry leaders
The tech giants

Leading tech companies worldwide as of January 13, 2026, by market capitalization (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading tech companies worldwide as of January 13, 2026, by market capitalization (in billion U.S. dollars)

The CE industry encompasses a wide range of companies, from tech giants to smaller firms, all offering diverse products that cater to various consumer needs, including personal entertainment devices and home automation systems. Market leaders such as Apple, Samsung, Sony, Google, and LG generate billions of dollars in annual revenue.
The innovation behind Apple
Samsung Electronics
Sony
Unique aspect of the industry
Sustainability and recycling

Size of the global electronics recycling market from 2020 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Size of the global electronics recycling market from 2020 to 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Sustainability and recycling are prominent themes in today's tech industry. CE devices are often easily recycled and reused, a trend embraced by both manufacturers and consumers. Companies benefit from recycling used materials, particularly to mitigate the ongoing chip shortage, while consumers save money by purchasing refurbished or second-hand devices. The global electronics recycling market is projected to surpass 57 billion U.S. dollars by 2025.
Sustainability in the tech industry
Recycling and reusage of consumer tech
Refurbished smartphones in the U.S.
State of the industry
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Consumer electronics (CE) refers to the wide range of products containing electronic circuit boards intended for personal or non-commercial use. Statista provides information on revenues and spending within the overall consumer technology industry and its segments, both on a global and regional scale.
Technology & Telecommunications

    Consumer Electronics
    Hardware
    Household Appliances
    IT Services
    Software
    Telecommunications

More interesting topics from the industry "Consumer Electronics"
AI in consumer technology
Apple
Apple in the U.S.
Apple in the UK
Apple Mac
Apple's "Awe Dropping" event in September 2025
Audio and sound equipment
Bluetooth
Children and technology
More interesting topics from the industry "Consumer Electronics"
Audio

    Headphones and earphones
    Household appliances in China
    Smart devices in China
    Smart speaker market in China
    Smart speakers

Electronic Retailers

    Best Buy
    Black Friday e-commerce in Brazil
    Ceconomy
    Consumer electronics e-commerce
    Consumer electronics e-commerce in the UK
    Unieuro

Gaming Technology

    Console gaming
    Console gaming in India
    Console gaming in Japan
    Extended reality (XR) technology in Japan
    Game consoles
    Gaming in China
    Gaming market in Colombia
    Mobile gaming in Latin America
    PC gaming hardware
    PlayStation
    Video game market in the United Kingdom
    Video games industry in Russia
    Video gaming audiences in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Video gaming in Brazil
    Video gaming in Italy
    Video gaming in Latin America
    Video gaming in Mexico
    Video gaming in the United Kingdom
    Virtual reality (VR)
    Virtual reality (VR) in Europe
    Xbox

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Consumer Electronics" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

