# Hardware

Hardware

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Technology & Telecommunications
    ›Hardware

Hardware

The world of computing and computer hardware is a fast and ever-evolving market. The latest trends released just the other day may be redundant after only a few years, as the market continues to innovate and excite. The tech hardware industry includes computer hardware and technology, peripheral devices, infrastructure, and semiconductors.

Along the tech hardware value chain are several globally recognized players, including Apple, Nvidia, AMD, and Intel. However, competition is stiff, with tech firms across the world investing heavily in research and development to maintain their lead in the market and continue to develop innovative products and services. As a result, many of the leading companies in the hardware industry are among the world’s largest and richest companies.
IT device spending 2024
732.3bn USD
IT data center spending 2024
259.7bn USD
Semiconductor market size 2024
630.9bn USD

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Unique aspect of the industry
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
PCs
AI PCs
Servers
Data centers
Graphics processing units (GPUs)
AI chips
Semiconductors
Fabless semiconductor companies
Semiconductor foundries
Extended reality (XR)
Augmented reality (AR)
Virtual reality (VR)
Tech hardware
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Tech hardware spending on the road to recovery

Global spending on devices (PCs, tablets, mobile phones, and printers) from 2012 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global spending on devices (PCs, tablets, mobile phones, and printers) from 2012 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Despite inventory rebalances, a challenging economic environment, and a shifting consumer landscape, the tech hardware industry is adapting. While 2023 saw a dip in device spending, forecasts for 2024 show a modest rebound. This is likely driven by pent-up demand and potentially new product launches, with AI at the heart of innovations.
Tech trends 2024
PCs
AI PCs
Market segments
The new era of AI PCs to rejuvenate the market

Personal computer (PC) shipments worldwide from 1st quarter 2009 to 3rd quarter 2025, by vendor (in million units)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Personal computer (PC) shipments worldwide from 1st quarter 2009 to 3rd quarter 2025, by vendor (in million units)

The introduction of PCs capable of handling AI on-device, coupled with the beginning of a commercial refresh cycle, is a sign of hope for the global PC market. This is timely, particularly as the industry went through a period of inventory rebalance in 2023, contributing to a 15 percent fall in shipments during the year. However, with the global economy nearing recovery, so has the PC market, with shipments finally showing signs of growth moving into 2024.
Lenovo
HP
Apple Mac
Industry trends
Despite a period of recession, data center spending remains positive

Information technology (IT) spending on data center systems worldwide from 2012 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Information technology (IT) spending on data center systems worldwide from 2012 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Data centers are forecast to receive increased investment in 2024. Security and efficiency have been enhanced by the implementation of AI, processes that require specialized AI chips. Advanced applications such as 5G, the Internet of Things, and generative AI will benefit from advancements in AI chip technology and the development of both hyperscale and edge data centers, specialized facilities located closer to end-users.
Data centers
AI chips
Nvidia
Industry leaders
Safeguarding the steady supply of semiconductors is a top priority

Semiconductor market revenue growth worldwide from 1988 to 2026
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Semiconductor market revenue growth worldwide from 1988 to 2026

Governments and companies across the entire semiconductor value chain have had to navigate changing demands, supply chain imbalances, and geopolitical factors. As a result, action plans and policies have had to be established in order to protect the supply of chips. Following a brief decline in 2023, the semiconductor industry must overcome new challenges as it surges once again in 2024, fueled by the AI boom and a recovering memory semiconductor market.
Semiconductor supply chains
Semiconductor foundries
Fabless semiconductor companies
Unique aspect of the industry
Semiconductor applications are vast and impact a range of sectors

Semiconductor market revenue worldwide from 2020 to 2030, by end market (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Semiconductor market revenue worldwide from 2020 to 2030, by end market (in billion U.S. dollars)

Smartphones represent a key market for the semiconductor industry, especially as these devices become more advanced and able to support 5G, AI, and immersive technology applications. Servers and data center environments are set to become an even more important opportunity, with graphics processing units being deployed for the training and running of generative AI applications. Furthermore, with more electric vehicles hitting the roads, demand from the automotive sector is only set to grow.
XR: AR, VR, and the metaverse
Graphics processing units (GPUs)
Processors
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The tech hardware industry includes computer hardware and technology, peripheral devices, infrastructure, and semiconductors. Statista provides information on spending within the overall technology hardware industry and its segments, both on a global and regional scale. Additionally, the financial metrics and market share of the major players within the relevant market segments are also covered, together with data on the application and usage of technology hardware.
Technology & Telecommunications

    Consumer Electronics
    Hardware
    Household Appliances
    IT Services
    Software
    Telecommunications

More interesting topics from the industry "Hardware"
3D technology
Acer
AI PCs
AI smartphones
Apple Vision Pro
Applied Materials
AR glasses and headsets
Artificial intelligence (AI) adoption, risks, and challenges
Artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics
More interesting topics from the industry "Hardware"
Computers

    Apple Mac
    Arm Holdings
    Computer components
    Computer hardware in China
    Computer memory and storage
    Data storage
    Desktop PC market in the UK
    Graphics processing units (GPUs)
    HP Inc.
    IBM
    IT budgets & investments
    Microcontrollers
    PC market in Europe
    PC market in India
    PC market in the UK
    PC market in the United States
    Processors
    Quantum computing
    Tablet PCs in the UK
    Tablets
    Tech hardware

Infrastructure

    AI data centers
    Data center construction in the United States
    Data centers in South Korea
    Digital Realty
    Tech hardware

Peripherals

    Computer components
    Computer peripherals
    Display industry in South Korea
    HP Inc.
    Logitech
    Printers (hardcopy peripherals)
    Spatial computing

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Hardware" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

