# Software

Software

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Technology & Telecommunications
    ›Software

Software

Software penetrates all aspects of our life in the information age: individuals and businesses rely on operating systems and applications to carry out daily tasks. No wonder, spending on enterprise software has one of the highest growth rates within the tech industry and is projected to grow further in 2024.

One major trend in the industry riding the hype cycle is the integration of artificial intelligence (AI) in software. This trend has also boosted the move to the cloud, namely from on-premises software to software-as-a-service (SaaS), representing around a third of the overall software market. The benefits of SaaS include lower total ownership costs and reduced dependence on owned infrastructure over traditional models, indicating that this trend will only continue in 2024 and beyond.
Spending on enterprise software
1.04tn USD
Largest software company
Microsoft
Most popular technology for software developers
AI-assisted development

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Market leaders
    Unique aspect of the industry
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Digital transformation
Enterprise software
Software development
Software as a Service (SaaS)
Cybersecurity
Security software
Endpoint security
Android
Microsoft
Generative artificial intelligence (AI)
ChatGPT
Gemini
Enterprise Software: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
IT spending on software shows significant growth

Information technology (IT) spending on enterprise software worldwide from 2009 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Information technology (IT) spending on enterprise software worldwide from 2009 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The economic downturn in the second half of 2022 forced many companies to reduce expenses, leading to slower IT spending growth. However, the software industry faired more favorably, experiencing more positive growth in spending. The pandemic led to more digital adoption and increased spending on software as customers moved towards online channels. Enterprise software spending is set to approach a trillion U.S. dollars soon as it becomes even more crucial in digital transformation.
Software development
Open source software
Software industry financial insights
Market segments
Enterprise software segment keeps expanding

Information technology (IT) spending worldwide from 2012 to 2026, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Information technology (IT) spending worldwide from 2012 to 2026, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)

For businesses to enhance their daily operations and core functions, they heavily rely on enterprise software to remain competitive and agile. Enterprise software is the largest segment in the software industry. Examples of enterprise software include enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management technologies.
Enterprise software
Security software
System infrastructure software
Industry trends
SaaS remains strong in the cloud computing market

Public cloud application services/software as a service (SaaS) end-user spending worldwide from 2015 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Public cloud application services/software as a service (SaaS) end-user spending worldwide from 2015 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The subscription-based model and accessibility demonstrated by SaaS, among other advantages over on-premises software, has made it one of the best-performing tech subsectors during the pandemic. As digitalization deepens, businesses and activities will move to the cloud more and more, pushing SaaS even further to the forefront. As a result, SaaS spending is projected to stay strong, reaching 195 billion U.S. dollars in 2023.
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)
Cloud computing
Microsoft Azure
Market leaders
Microsoft keeps the lead among software giants

Revenue and total expenses of leading software companies worldwide in 2020 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue and total expenses of leading software companies worldwide in 2020 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Best known for its Windows line of operating systems and Office Suite, Microsoft has dominated the software sphere for years. IBM and Oracle are also leading players, albeit with far less revenue than Microsoft. With the recent integration of OpenAI’s technology into its productivity suite, Microsoft has revitalized its cloud business. The German firm SAP is the only European company among the largest software companies and is primarily known for its ERP software.
Microsoft
Adobe
SAP
Unique aspect of the industry
Increased use of AI across the world economy

Artificial intelligence (AI) market size worldwide from 2020 to 2031 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Artificial intelligence (AI) market size worldwide from 2020 to 2031 (in billion U.S. dollars)

As large language models such as ChatGPT and Gemini continue to evolve, the use of artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming increasingly common. The ongoing generative AI revolution continues to influence business and industries, increasing efficiency and reducing costs. AI integration in software and increased usage of AI is likely to have a cascading effecting on a plethora of professions, from IT to management, as new possibilities of AI open up.
AI worldwide
Generative AI
AI in business
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The software industry consists of the development, distribution, and maintenance of software. It can be broadly divided into application software, system infrastructure software, SaaS, operating systems, database and analytics software. Statista provides information on software market spending in general and on various software products specifically, on both global and regional scales. Additionally, financial metrics and market share of major players are covered as well, together with data on AI, software development, and usage.
Technology & Telecommunications

    Consumer Electronics
    Hardware
    Household Appliances
    IT Services
    Software
    Telecommunications

More interesting topics from the industry "Software"
3D technology
Adobe Inc.
Android
Artificial intelligence (AI) adoption, risks, and challenges
Artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics
Artificial intelligence (AI) funding and startups
Artificial intelligence (AI) in Europe
Artificial intelligence (AI) in France
Artificial intelligence (AI) in labor and productivity
More interesting topics from the industry "Software"
Application Software

    Biometric technologies
    Database software
    Enterprise software
    Enterprise software market leaders
    IBM
    Open source software
    UiPath
    Virtual Assistants
    Virtual Assistants in the U.S.
    Voice commerce in the United States
    Zoom Video Communications, Inc.

Artificial Intelligence

    AI agents
    AI and online traffic
    AI chips in China
    AI data centers
    AI in logistics
    AI in software development
    AI in video streaming in the United States
    AI industry in MENA
    AI regulations worldwide
    AI software developer tools
    AI usage in marketing in India
    AI use in professional services
    AI-driven retail in China
    AI-generated online content (AIGC)
    AI-powered online search
    Anthropic
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) and journalism
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) and news
    Artificial intelligence (AI) benchmark and training
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in Australia
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in cybersecurity
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in e-commerce
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in e-commerce in France
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in European e-commerce
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Indonesia
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in Israel
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in Japan
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in Latin America
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in marketing in China
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in marketing in Europe
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in marketing in Germany
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) in publishing in the United States
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in Singapore
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in South Korea
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in UK e-commerce
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Vietnam
    Artificial intelligence (AI) use in travel and tourism
    Artificial intelligence (AI) use in video game development
    Artificial intelligence in American education
    Artificial intelligence in B2B e-commerce
    Artificial intelligence in business
    Artificial intelligence in China
    Artificial intelligence in commercial vehicles
    Artificial Intelligence in Germany
    Artificial intelligence use in media and entertainment
    Bard
    ChatGPT
    ChatGPT alternatives in China
    ChatGPT and cybercrime
    Consumer attitudes to artificial intelligence in Australia
    Conversational Commerce
    Deep learning
    DeepSeek
    Digital procurement
    Environmental impact of AI
    Figure AI
    Gemini
    Generative AI and ad agencies worldwide
    Generative AI in China
    Generative AI in marketing
    Generative artificial intelligence (AI)
    Generative artificial intelligence (AI) in business
    Generative artificial intelligence (AI) in Japan
    Generative artificial intelligence (AI) in South Korea
    Generative artificial intelligence (AI) in the U.S.
    Large language models (LLMs)
    Machine learning
    Midjourney
    Mistral
    Neural processing units (NPUs)
    Nvidia
    Online news publisher traffic loss
    OpenAI
    Perception of gen AI use in advertising in the U.S.
    Personalized media content algorithms in the United States
    Robotics in China
    Robotics industry in Japan
    Smartphone market in South Korea
    Social media and artificial intelligence
    Synthetic advertising
    Travel and tourism trends 2026
    Virtual humans in China
    xAI

Operating Systems

    Apple OS
    Linux
    Mobile operating systems in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Mobile OS in the United States

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Software" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

