# Telecommunications

Telecommunications

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Technology & Telecommunications
    ›Telecommunications

Telecommunications

Telecommunications networks are vital infrastructure for consumers and organizations worldwide. The pace of innovation and development in a given region or sector is often tied to the health of local telecommunications networks, with digital transformation driving an increased dependency on speed and reliability. In order to meet these demands, network operators are looking to the deployment of next-generation networks.

The rollout of 5G has been a core focus in the mobile sector, with the development of 6G technology progressing alongside. Meanwhile, fiber-optic networks are delivering high-speed internet to fixed broadband customers in many markets. The scale and cost of delivering these networks has prompted shifts in the global market, with regulators looking to rethink restrictions on large-scale mergers, while also considering plans to require big tech firms to contribute to network costs.
Largest telco company by market cap
T-Mobile US
Global information technology (IT) spending on communication services
1.55tr USD
Global monthly mobile data traffic
130.59 exabytes

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Unique aspect of the industry
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Telecommunications services
5G
Telecoms in the United Kingdom
Telecoms in Canada
Mobile communications in the United States
Mobile telecoms in Africa
Telecommunications infrastructure & equipment
US smartphone market
Smartphones in the UK
AT&T
Telecommunications industry in China
Fixed-line telecoms
Telecommunications in the U.S. 2022 - Industry Insights & Data Analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Increased telecoms spending expected in 2024

Information technology (IT) spending on telecommunications services worldwide from 2008 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Information technology (IT) spending on telecommunications services worldwide from 2008 to 2025 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Strong growth in the global telecommunications market is expected in 2024, with a forecast 1.6 trillion U.S. dollars to be spent worldwide. This represents a 4.3 percent increase on the estimated spend for 2023. The reliability of telecoms services has become increasingly important in an era of flexible working, with organizations and governments recognizing the value of telecoms investment in the digital economy.
Telecommunications services
Tech trends 2024
Digital transformation
Market segments
Mobile operators focus on 5G

Forecast number of 5G mobile subscriptions worldwide from 2019 to 2031, by region (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Forecast number of 5G mobile subscriptions worldwide from 2019 to 2031, by region (in millions)

The market can be broadly split into mobile and fixed-line communications. The fixed-line segment includes fixed broadband services, with a particular focus on the deployment of fiber-optic broadband, though also includes fixed-line voice services. The mobile segment concerns all aspects of mobile communications, including mobile data services. There has been a strong focus on the rollout of 5G, with the number of 5G subscriptions worldwide set to surpass two billion in 2024.
Fixed-line telecoms
Mobile communications
Mobile communications in the United States
Industry trends
5G technology unlocks new possibilities

5G share of total mobile connections from 2023 to 2030, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic 5G share of total mobile connections from 2023 to 2030, by region

Global 5G adoption is under the spotlight, with the technology set to underpin a range of exciting artificial intelligence (AI) use cases. North America currently leads the way, with 5G accounting for more than half of all mobile connections. However, low adoption forecasts in parts of Africa and Eurasia risk many users becoming locked out of the 5G's revolution, with this digital divide driven by poor network infrastructure and affordability issues.
5G
5G in the United States
Mobile broadband
Industry leaders
T-Mobile US is the largest firm by market cap

Leading telecommunications companies worldwide 2025, by market capitalization (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading telecommunications companies worldwide 2025, by market capitalization (in billion U.S. dollars)

Intense competition is a feature of telecoms markets across the globe. T-Mobile US is the largest telecoms company by market capitalization, having surpassed Beijing-based China Mobile in 2024. T-Mobile US is one of a range of major operators across the globe that has sought to boost its 5G offering by merging with rival network operators, with the firm having joined with Sprint in 2020. It has since emerged as a 5G leader, offering the highest average download speed of any U.S. operator.
AT&T
T-Mobile US
BT Group
Unique aspect of the industry
Fixed wireless access (FWA) brings stable broadband to remote areas

Mobile internet penetration worldwide in 2022, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Mobile internet penetration worldwide in 2022, by region

While many fixed broadband users are enjoying the lightning fast download speeds offered by fiber connections, remote areas remain largely unserved. This has led some to look to mobile solutions, with so-called fixed wireless access (FWA) services using 4G and 5G technology to deliver fast, stable internet to a fixed premises. There were around 161 million such connections as of 2024, with around a third of these using 5G networks.
5G FWA
Mobile telecoms in Africa
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The telecommunications sector covers the companies and regulatory authorities that provide the services and infrastructure required to transmit signals, messages, and data. Primarily, this includes fixed-line and mobile internet and telephony services.
Technology & Telecommunications

    Consumer Electronics
    Hardware
    Household Appliances
    IT Services
    Software
    Telecommunications

More interesting topics from the industry "Telecommunications"
5G
5G in Europe
5G in France
5G in Italy
5G in Mexico
5G in the United States
5G technology in China
6G
AirTag
More interesting topics from the industry "Telecommunications"
Fixed-Line Connections

    Broadband in the UK
    Fixed broadband in the United States
    Fixed broadband internet
    Fixed-line telecoms
    Telecommunications industry in the Philippines
    Telecoms in the Netherlands

Infrastructure & Equipment

    5G in Finland
    5G in Japan
    Civil infrastructure in South Korea
    Satellite connectivity
    Smartphone market in the Philippines

Mobile Connections and Data

    5G FWA
    5G in Finland
    5G in Japan
    5G in Singapore
    5G in the Asia-Pacific region
    Broadband in the UK
    Children's internet usage in Poland
    Digital payments in Russia
    eSIM
    Fintech in Poland
    Fixed broadband in the United States
    Fixed-line telecoms
    Internet usage in China
    Internet usage in Czechia
    Internet usage in Ghana
    Internet usage in MENA
    Internet usage in Poland
    Internet usage in the Baltics
    Mobile communications in Mexico
    Mobile communications in the Asia-Pacific region
    Mobile internet usage in MENA
    Mobile phone usage in Finland
    NTT Docomo, Inc.
    Reliance Jio
    Retail technology in the UK
    Rogers Communications
    SoftBank Corp.
    Telecommunications industry in Japan
    Telecommunications industry in the Asia-Pacific region
    Telecommunications industry in the Philippines
    Telecoms in the Netherlands
    Virgin Media O2 UK
    Web Browsers

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Telecommunications" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

