# Mortgages & Financing

Mortgages & Financing

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Real Estate
    ›Mortgages & Financing

Mortgages & Financing

A mortgage is the most common way to finance a home purchase. From a macroeconomic perspective, mortgages serve as a financial instrument that helps regulate spending and inflation. The record-low mortgage rates in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic stimulated home buying and contributed to a surge in house prices. In response to the rising inflation in 2021, central banks worldwide introduced aggressive interest rate hikes, resulting in higher costs for mortgage borrowers. Consequently, the global housing market has slowed notably.
In this section, Statista presents the most relevant and up to date facts on the mortgages and financing market worldwide such as the largest lenders, average mortgage rates, debt outstanding, delinquencies, and many more.
Mortgage debt outstanding in the U.S.
20.2tr USD
Mortgage debt outstanding in Germany
1.9tr EUR
Mortgage debt outstanding in the UK
1.6tr GBP

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Mortgage industry in the U.S.
Mortgages in Europe
Mortgages in the UK
Mortgage industry worldwide: developed markets
Mortgages in Japan
Mortgages in Australia
Commercial mortgages in the U.S.
Mortgage industry in South Korea
Mortgages in the United Kingdom (UK)
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
In Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, and Iceland more than half of households are owner-occupied with mortgage

Share of the population in European countries who are owner-occupants in 2024, with or without a mortgage
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of the population in European countries who are owner-occupants in 2024, with or without a mortgage

High homeownership rate does not always mean high mortgage penetration. In Europe, both Norway and Romania were among the countries with highest home ownership. Nevertheless, in Norway, over 60 percent of the households were owner-occupied with a mortgage, whereas in Romania, the share was around one percent. This has to do with many factors such as housing policy, the supply and demand on the housing market, as well as the overall economic stability in the country.
Mortgage originations in the U.S., by type
Value of residential mortgage lending Europe, by country
Value of mortgages outstanding in Canada
Market segments
First-time buyers in the U.S. take out a mortgage against a lower down payment

Median down payment of first-time and repeat buyers in the United States from 1989 to 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Median down payment of first-time and repeat buyers in the United States from 1989 to 2023

Repeat buyers in the United States have consistently had a larger percentage of the purchase price to put down as a down payment when buying a home compared with first-time buyers. In 2023, repeat buyers had 19 percent of the purchase price on hand, whereas first-time buyers only had eight percent of theirs.
Average value of first-time buyer mortgages in the UK, by region
Commercial real estate delinquency rate in the U.S.
Number of home equity conversion mortgages (HECM) in the U.S.
Industry trends
Portugal, Austria, and Belgium have some of Europe's lowest average mortgage rates

Average mortgage rates for selected European countries in 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average mortgage rates for selected European countries in 2024

Mortgage interest rates are decided on the base level of supply and demand, with main macro determinants including factors such as inflation, economic growth, and the health of the housing market. Though at a record low until recently, mortgage rates have soared in many countries worldwide. Higher mortgage rates are a direct result of central banks hiking lending rates to tackle inflation.
Average mortgage interest rate UK, by type of mortgage
Mortgage interest rates in Europe, by country
Mortgage interest rate in Japan
Industry leaders
The UK's top ten lenders accounted for over 80 percent of the mortgage market

Largest mortgage lenders in the United Kingdom (UK) in 2024, by market share
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Largest mortgage lenders in the United Kingdom (UK) in 2024, by market share

Comparing the market shares of mortgage lenders is an easy way to find the industry leaders. In 2022, Lloyds Banking Group was the UK’s largest lender with 17 percent of gross mortgage lending. Besides banks, home buyers often turn to building societies for funding – financial institutions similar to credit unions with focus on housing loans. Nationwide BS was the biggest building society and the third-largest lender with a market share of approximately 11.5 percent in 2021.
Leading reverse mortgage lenders U.S., by market share
Leading lenders in South Korea, by value of mortgage originations
Largest mortgage lenders in Australiaby value of gross lending
State of the industry

Industry Definition

A mortgage is a loan which is taken out to finance a real estate purchase and is paid out with a predetermined set of payments. Both private and legal persons can take out a mortgage. Mortgages differ depending on the term and interest rate – fixed, adjustable-rate mortgage, initial, and interest-only. Failing to make regular payments (defaulting) may result in a foreclosure and the lender taking ownership of the property.
Real Estate

    Commercial Real Estate
    Industrial Real Estate
    Mortgages & Financing
    Property Services
    Residential Real Estate

More interesting topics from the industry "Mortgages & Financing"
Commercial mortgages in the U.S.
DLF Limited
First-time home buying UK
Mortgage industry in South Korea
Mortgage industry in the U.S.
Mortgage industry worldwide: developed markets
Mortgages in Australia
Mortgages in Europe
Mortgages in Italy
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

