# Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing

Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Metals & Electronics
    ›Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing

Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing

The aerospace manufacturing industry is currently in a phase of recovery after the significant decline caused by the coronavirus pandemic. After the first hit of the pandemic, the industry started rebounding and getting more aircraft orders. However, the aerospace manufacturing sector faces new and continuing challenges, including skills shortages, rising costs, and developing technologies to mitigate aviation’s impact on climate change. Meanwhile, defense manufacturing has remained on an upward trend. The sectors most likely to emerge as drivers of global growth for the defense industry include intelligence, surveillance, target acquisition, and reconnaissance (ISTAR) technologies, as well as the cybersecurity sector and the application of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). In 2023, the leading aerospace and defense manufacturer was Boeing, with approximately 77.8 billion. The company was followed closely by Airbus and Raytheon Technologies.
Leading aerospace and defense manufacturer
Boeing
Market size of aerospace services in the North America
1tn U.S. dollars
Global aircraft fleet size
28,398

    Overview
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry scope

Market size
Size of the global aircraft fleet

Number of gross orders for Airbus and Boeing aircraft between 2006 and 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of gross orders for Airbus and Boeing aircraft between 2006 and 2024

Airbus and Boeing dominate the world’s airliner fleet. The two aircraft manufacturers produce highly successful jet models, including the Airbus A320 and Boeing’s 737 aircraft. The Boeing 737 was often named as one of the best-selling jets worldwide before coming under scrutiny for misleading the authorities during the approval process of the 737 MAX aircraft, which led to two aircraft crashes. Bombardier, Embraer, and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries compete for the remaining market.
Airbus and Boeing
Honeywell
Raytheon Technologies Corporation
Market segments
Global defense spending

Global military spending from 2001 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global military spending from 2001 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The U.S. holds the largest share of worldwide military outlays, accounting for around 40 percent of global defense spending. Conflicting interests between countries stress the development of more military technology innovations. For instance, drones have become an indispensable weapon and are in great demand in many parts of the world.
Defense spending and arms trade
Lockheed Martin
Defense industry in South Korea
Industry trends
The new Space Race

Percentage distribution of the cumulative equity investment in space companies worldwide from 2013 to 2022, by country
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Percentage distribution of the cumulative equity investment in space companies worldwide from 2013 to 2022, by country

Private companies have long been involved in the space industry, but recent years have seen a marked shift in dominance from governmental space agencies to the private sector. Some of the most prominent companies in the industry, such as SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Relativity Space, are attracting large amounts of funding to develop technologies that allow private space exploration. Reusable launch vehicles and rockets are a key focus for the industry to bring down costs and increase competitivenes
Space Startups
NASA
Industry leaders
The leading aerospace and defense companies in the world

Leading aerospace and defense manufacturers worldwide in 2023, based on revenue (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading aerospace and defense manufacturers worldwide in 2023, based on revenue (in million U.S. dollars)

Boeing, Airbus, Raytheon, Northrop Grumman, and General Dynamics are ranked among the leading aerospace and defense technology companies worldwide. The two largest jet manufacturers, Airbus and Illinois-headquartered Boeing, form a de facto duopoly in the aircraft manufacturing industry. Aside from commercial aircraft, both companies also produce military aircraft, rockets, satellites, communications equipment, and missiles.
Airbus and Boeing
Raytheon Technologies Corporation
Northrop Grumman
Regional overview
Countries with the highest aerospace exports

Leading countries with the highest aerospace exports in 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading countries with the highest aerospace exports in 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The United States, France, and Germany are ranked among the most important markets for aerospace products. The U.S. market contributed some 89 billion U.S. dollars in aerospace exports in 2021, making it the leading country in terms of sales value. The country is also home to some of the leading aircraft manufacturers in the world, such as Boeing and Raytheon.
Commercial satellites
Space industry in South Korea
Defense manufacturing in India
State of the industry

Industry scope

The aerospace manufacturing and defense industry comprises the manufacturing of aircraft, space vehicles, engines and parts, as well as maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) services. Aerospace manufacturing can be segmented into defense and commercial aerospace manufacturing. Within this sector, Statista presents the most relevant and up-to-date facts relating to the manufacture of aerial vehicles and the defense industry. Data on a global, regional, and country scale is available, integrated with information on the largest players and rankings.
Metals & Electronics

    Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing
    Electronics
    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
    Metals
    Rolling Stock Manufacturing
    Shipbuilding
    Vehicle Manufacturing

More interesting topics from the industry "Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing"
Air transportation in South Korea
Aircraft and aerospace industry in Japan
Aviation in Latin America
Aviation industry in Japan
Commercial satellites
Defense industry in Israel
Defense industry in Japan
Defense industry in South Korea
Defense industry in the UK
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

