# Electronics

Electronics

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Metals & Electronics
    ›Electronics

Electronics

Since its emergence in the 20th century, the electronics sector has been providing equipment, devices, and components to make technological advancements possible. Automation in industrial production and the ‘Industrial Internet of Things’ are among the key trends in the electronics industry, as today’s world increasingly relies on technology. The electronics industry is predominantly a business-to-business industry, offering the building blocks on which many other modern industries stand: e-commerce, consumer electronics, and the manufacturing sector, to name only a few, all rely on electrical components. The key markets include China, the United States, Japan, South Korea, and Germany.
Leading Lithium-ion battery manufacturer
CATL (China)
Turnover of German robotics and automation industry
13.6bn euros
Revenue of global satellite industry
279bn U.S. dollars

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    State of the industry
    Industry Scope

Industry Insights
Industrial robots worldwide
Industrial robots in South Korea
Robotics industry in Japan
Additive manufacturing and 3D printing
Edge Computing
ABB Group
Lithium-ion battery industry worldwide
Electronic waste worldwide
Automotive electronics worldwide
Battery industry in Japan
Recycling and reusage of consumer tech
Siemens
Global Manufacturing: Electrical Equipment – Industry Insights & Data Analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Which regions are driving growth?

Estimated growth rates for the global electronics industry from 2020 to 2022, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Estimated growth rates for the global electronics industry from 2020 to 2022, by region

The electronic industry experienced a dual impact from the coronavirus pandemic. While the sector grew due to increased consumer demand for electronic products, it also suffered setbacks due to supply chain disruptions and the closure of manufacturing plants, resulting in decreased production. Asia emerged as the only region displaying resilience in the face of pandemic-related challenges. Notably, China is the largest global market, generating over two trillion U.S. dollars in revenue in 2021.
Manufacturing: computers & electronics - global
Manufacturing: electrical equipment
Electrical and electronics industry: revenue share by country
State of the industry

Industry Scope

The electronics category provides information on electrical and electronic engineering. This industry comprises designing and manufacturing electronic systems, such as batteries and accumulators, as well as lighting systems, sensors, and actuators. With this sector, Statista provides information about the business activities of component manufacturers. Data insights on a global, regional, and country scale are available. All of this information is complemented with manufacturer rankings and information on the supply chain of components.
Metals & Electronics

    Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing
    Electronics
    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
    Metals
    Rolling Stock Manufacturing
    Shipbuilding
    Vehicle Manufacturing

More interesting topics from the industry "Electronics"
ABB Group
Artificial intelligence (AI) adoption, risks, and challenges
Artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics
Artificial intelligence (AI) funding and startups
Artificial intelligence (AI) in labor and productivity
Artificial intelligence (AI) in Latin America
Artificial intelligence (AI) in the Asia-Pacific region
Artificial intelligence (AI) in the United States
Artificial intelligence (AI) job market
More interesting topics from the industry "Electronics"
Automation

    Artificial intelligence (AI) in Singapore
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Vietnam
    Autonomous vehicles worldwide
    Industrial automation worldwide
    Industrial machinery and automation in the UK
    Machinery industry in Japan
    Robotics industry in Japan
    Smart factories
    Smart grids
    Smart grids in the U.S.
    Warehouse automation market worldwide

Batteries

    Battery and accumulator market in the UK
    Battery industry in China
    Battery industry in India
    Battery industry in Japan
    Battery industry in the U.S.
    Battery industry worldwide
    Battery minerals worldwide
    Battery prices worldwide
    Battery storage industry in Europe
    Battery supply chain worldwide
    EV battery industry in South Korea
    Li-ion battery recycling
    Sodium-ion battery industry worldwide

Lighting

    Lighting market in the UK

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

