# Industrial Machinery Manufacturing

Industrial Machinery Manufacturing

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Metals & Electronics
    ›Industrial Machinery Manufacturing

Industrial Machinery Manufacturing

The industrial machinery industry is essential to the provision of infrastructure and logistics services worldwide, building everything from tools and heavy equipment vital for the construction and mining industries to the machines necessary for infrastructure development in energy production and distribution. Industrial machines can further assist in aircraft manufacturing, shipbuilding, and the manufacturing of other vehicles. Technological progress in recent years has impacted manufacturing speed, quality, and quantity, thus benefiting productivity and profitability. However, while higher mechanization and automation rates can positively impact the industry's financial performance, it is also reshaping the industrial machinery labor market. Economic conditions, industrial tariffs, and investments made in the industrial machinery sectors are also important within the European Union and across the world.
Off-highway equipment market volume
45.62 million units
Leading construction and mining equipment company
Caterpillar Inc.
Leading agriculture equipment company
Deere & Company

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry Scope

Industry insights
Material handling: industrial trucks worldwide
Material handling: elevators and escalators
Industrial robots worldwide
Equipment rental market in the United States
John Deere
Machine tool industry in Germany
Industry 4.0: in-depth market analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
How big is the construction equipment industry?

Global construction equipment market size from 2023 to 2031 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global construction equipment market size from 2023 to 2031 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The global construction and mining equipment industry was worth almost 160.6 billion U.S. dollars in 2021 and is forecast to rise steadily through 2028. The most important markets for this industry include North America, Western Europe, and East Asia. As urbanization is taking off, investments from the public and private sectors into infrastructure projects, such as the Belt and Road Initiative, are projected to push the construction equipment market growth.
Construction materials industry
Construction equipment industry worldwide
Construction equipment industry in the U.S.
Market segments
The power of the machine tool industry

Global production value of machine tools from 2011 to 2021 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global production value of machine tools from 2011 to 2021 (in billion U.S. dollars)

With a production value of nearly 84 billion U.S. dollars, the machine tool industry is one of the key industries within the industrial machinery manufacturing sector. Machine tools are used to shape rigid metals, such as metals, by cutting, shearing, grinding, or lathing. The major areas of application include machinery manufacturing and vehicle production.
European machine tool industry
Machine tool industry in Germany
Leading countries for machine tool production
Industry trends
3D printing technology keeps growing

Global 3D printing products and services market size from 2020 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global 3D printing products and services market size from 2020 to 2026 (in billion U.S. dollars)

From the dawn of Industry 1.0, industrial machinery manufacturing has attracted many investments and innovations. By building products layer by layer rather than forging or casting, 3D printing can utilize diverse materials for a wide range of applications, such as producing prototypes. The impact of 3D printing on the sector is still ongoing, and this technology is predicted to be at the forefront of yet another industrial revolution.
3D technology
Leading owners of additive manufacturing patents
3D Systems Corporation's revenue
Industry leaders
Leading heavy equipment manufacturer in the world

The leading heavy equipment manufacturers worldwide as of May 2024, based on sales (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic The leading heavy equipment manufacturers worldwide as of May 2024, based on sales (in billion U.S. dollars)

Caterpillar Inc. ranks among the leading global construction and mining equipment manufacturers. The company was founded in 1925 in California following a merger between two of the most important tractor manufacturers in the United States at the time. As a multinational, Caterpillar has employees all around the world, although most of its employees are based in North America.
Caterpillar
Volvo Group
John Deere
Regional overview
Leading machine tool production countries

Machine tool producers' market share in 2021, by country
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Machine tool producers' market share in 2021, by country

China, Germany, and Japan were the most important producers of machine tools. With a market share of 29 percent in 2021, China is the primary producer and consumer of machine tools. Of producing countries worldwide, Germany was the highest-ranking European country, coming in second with a market share of 15 percent.
European machine tool industry
Industrial machinery and automation in the UK
Material handling in the UK
State of the industry

Industry Scope

The industrial machinery manufacturing industry comprises the production of all mechanical machinery for use in the mining, manufacturing, energy, and construction sectors, as well as domestic appliances (e.g., air conditioning). This category includes the manufacturing of machine tools, material handling systems, heavy machinery, and industrial machinery, as well as the manufacture of propulsion and powertrain technologies. Within this sector, Statista presents the most relevant and up-to-date facts relating to the manufacturing of industrial machines. Global, regional, and country-scale data is available, including information on the largest players.
Metals & Electronics

    Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing
    Electronics
    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
    Metals
    Rolling Stock Manufacturing
    Shipbuilding
    Vehicle Manufacturing

More interesting topics from the industry "Industrial Machinery Manufacturing"
3D technology
ABB Group
Additive manufacturing and 3D printing
AutoZone
Bosch
Bridgestone
Caterpillar
CNH Industrial
Collaborative robots worldwide
More interesting topics from the industry "Industrial Machinery Manufacturing"
Heavy Machinery

    Commercial and off-highway vehicles in Spain and Portugal
    Machinery industry in India

Machine Tool Manufacturing

    Agricultural machinery industry in Thailand
    European machine tool industry
    Machine tool industry in Germany
    Machine tool industry worldwide
    Machinery industry in India

Material Handling Systems

    KONE
    Material handling industry in the UK
    Otis Worldwide

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

