# Metals

Metals

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Metals & Electronics
    ›Metals

Metals

Metals are a vital commodity due to their widespread application in various industries. Metal fabrication holds significance in the areas of infrastructure development, building construction, automobile manufacturing, and shipbuilding. The steel industry is regarded as one of the most significant subsectors of the industry, primarily driven by China.

Currently, the most significant topic in the industry is the reduction of carbon emissions. Due to its high-energy production processes, the steel sector is a significant contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions. Reducing the emissions of the sector can be achieved by recycling steel scrap. In 2022, a total of seven key markets utilized approximately 469.7 million metric tons of steel scrap for steel making. That year, the worldwide crude steel production was 1.9 billion metric tons.
Global crude steel production
1.9 billion metric tons
Demand for crude steel worldwide
1.85 billion metric tons
Largest crude steel producer
China Baowu Group

    Overview
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Scope

Industry leaders
Where are steel companies headed?

The world's largest 15 crude steel producers in 2024, by production volume (in million metric tons)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic The world's largest 15 crude steel producers in 2024, by production volume (in million metric tons)

China is the major player in the global metal industry, producing over half of the worldwide steel output despite facing heavy consequences from the Russia-Ukraine war and supply-chain disruptions. Rising global energy prices and China’s net zero-COVID policy led to many production stoppages and even plant closures. Even though the country has been dealing with various bottlenecks, China outperformed its competitors with one billion metric tons of crude steel production in 2022.
Steel industry worldwide
Steel industry in China
Top companies: mining & metal
State of the industry

Industry Scope

The metals category provides information on metal fabrication, sales, and revenue. The products covered include ferrous and non-ferrous metals, precious metals, and base metals. Within this sector, Statista provides information about the key metal products and the business activities of manufacturers. Statista further includes insights on recycling, employment, and environmental factors impacting the industry. All of this information is complemented with manufacturer rankings.
Metals & Electronics

    Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing
    Electronics
    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
    Metals
    Rolling Stock Manufacturing
    Shipbuilding
    Vehicle Manufacturing

More interesting topics from the industry "Metals"
Aluminum industry worldwide
Base metal industry worldwide
Battery minerals worldwide
Cobalt mining industry worldwide
Construction materials in Japan
Copper mining industry worldwide
Critical minerals in Canada
Critical minerals in the United States
Glencore
More interesting topics from the industry "Metals"
Primary Metals

    Gold market in the United Kingdom 

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

