# Health Professionals & Hospitals

Health Professionals & Hospitals

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Health, Pharma & Medtech
    ›Health Professionals & Hospitals

Health Professionals & Hospitals

Hospitals represent the main healthcare expenditure in most countries and employ many healthcare professionals. They are undoubtedly the cornerstones of any health system. Yet, despite their importance, hospitals currently face unprecedented challenges.

The COVID-19 pandemic shined a spotlight on hospitals. Despite earlier warnings, hospitals worldwide were unprepared. The importance of intensive care bed density and the lack of supplies required to handle such a pandemic became apparent. Many countries also faced medical staff shortages, with employee exposure to the coronavirus and economic layoffs playing a big part in the problem. However, hospitals and healthcare professionals face more longstanding challenges. Indeed, they have to adapt to the changing healthcare landscape. Technological enablement, digitization, and automation profoundly affect the healthcare industry. As a result, hospitals need to get smarter to keep up with this global digital transformation.
Highest physician density in the OECD
5.41 per 1,000 population
Country with highest hospital bed density
South Korea
Country with highest intensive care bed density in the OECD
Czechia

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segment
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Hospitals in the U.S
Hospitals in the UK
Hospitals in Japan
Hospitals in Italy
Hospitals in Europe
Hospitals in Canada
Physicians
Burnout among physicians and nurses in the United States
Physicians in Canada
Doctors and medical practitioners in Europe
Doctors in Germany
Health expenditures in the U.S.
Hospitals
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
The hospitals market in the U.S.

Revenue generated by hospitals in the U.S. from 2017 to 2029 (in billion U.S. Dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue generated by hospitals in the U.S. from 2017 to 2029 (in billion U.S. Dollars)

The hospitals market in the U.S. is expected to reach a projected revenue of 1.5 trillion U.S. dollars by 2024 and forecasted to grow to 1.78 trillion by the end of 2029. Globally, the hospitals market in the U.S. generated the highest revenue and is estimated to account for 35% of global hospital market volume in 2024.
Hospitals: market data & analysis
Hospitals in the U.S.
Hospitals worldwide
Market segment
Public and private hospitals

Total number of not-for-profit and for-profit privately owned hospitals in select countries worldwide in 2022
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Total number of not-for-profit and for-profit privately owned hospitals in select countries worldwide in 2022

Hospitals function either on public or private ownership. Public hospitals are primarily financed by the government, while private hospitals can be either profit-driven or non-profit. In 2021, the U.S. had around 1,397 publicly owned hospitals and 4,732 privately owned hospitals. The share of public and private hospitals varies from one country to another, depending on their health system, government, and income levels.
Americans without health insurance
Obamacare
Obamacare's payment reforms
Industry trends
Lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic

Number of coronavirus (COVID-19) cases, recoveries, and deaths worldwide as of May 2, 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of coronavirus (COVID-19) cases, recoveries, and deaths worldwide as of May 2, 2023

Despite earlier warnings from organizations, hospitals were unprepared for an emergency such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Countries implemented lockdowns to avoid hospital bed overcapacity, staff shortages, and a lack of supplies and vital medical equipment. The different preparation levels of countries prompted a global discussion. Ultimately, hospital functioning is under increased scrutiny and is bound to evolve to better respond to future scenarios.
COVID-19
COVID-19 in the U.S.
COVID-19 vaccines
Industry leaders
Health systems

Ten largest healthcare systems in the United States as of 2025, by number of hospitals
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Ten largest healthcare systems in the United States as of 2025, by number of hospitals

In the U.S. hospitals sometimes are involved in an ownership, lease, sponsorship, or contract-management relationship with a central organization. Currently, according to the American Hospital Association, 67% of U.S. hospitals are system-affiliated within 417 health care systems in the U.S. The largest of these health systems is the Hospital Corporation of America, based in Nashville, Tennessee with 184 hospitals.
Global health care systems comparison
Medicare
Medicaid
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Hospitals and health professionals are the backbones of any health system. This category provides key data on hospital structures and the professionals who help run them. Hospital infrastructures are bound to evolve as countries face aging populations, rises in the prevalence of chronic diseases, increases in disposable income, and growth in penetration of health insurance.
Health, Pharma & Medtech

    Care & Support
    Health Professionals & Hospitals
    Health System
    Medical Technology
    Pharmaceutical Products & Market
    State of Health

More interesting topics from the industry "Health Professionals & Hospitals"
Americans without health insurance
Anti-aging
Attacks on healthcare in war
Cesarean sections
Children's health in China
Cosmetic procedures in Brazil
Cosmetic procedures in the U.S.
Cosmetic procedures worldwide
Diabetes in MENA
More interesting topics from the industry "Health Professionals & Hospitals"
Healthcare Professionals

    Alternative medicine in France
    Burnout among physicians and nurses in the United States
    Dental care in the United Kingdom
    Dentistry in Japan
    Dentists in France
    Doctors and medical practitioners in Europe
    Doctors in Germany
    Doctors in the UK
    GPs in the UK
    Healthcare professionals in Brazil
    Healthcare professionals in Mexico
    Healthcare workers in the Philippines
    Medication and medical treatments in Japan
    NHS staff shortage
    Nurses in Canada
    Nurses in the U.S.
    Physicians in Canada
    Telemedicine in Brazil
    Telemedicine in Mexico
    Telemedicine in Spain
    Trust in healthcare worldwide 

Hospitals

    Healthcare in Taiwan
    Hospital price transparency rule
    Hospitals and healthcare facilities in China
    Hospitals in Brazil
    Hospitals in Canada
    Hospitals in Europe
    Hospitals in Germany
    Hospitals in India
    Hospitals in Italy
    Hospitals in Mexico
    Hospitals in the Nordics
    Hospitals in the UK
    Medical technology in Brazil
    Private health insurance in Italy
    Public hospital crisis in France
    Smart hospitals
    Statutory health insurance in Germany

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

