# Health System

Health System

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Health, Pharma & Medtech
    ›Health System

Health System

Health systems play a key role in protecting and improving the public health of a nation. It is responsible for providing and delivering appropriate healthcare services. Natural or man-made catastrophes can cause public health emergencies, and the recent pandemic brought all the global health care systems into the limelight. Events like these highlight the strengths and flaws of various health systems and demonstrate the significance of an efficient health system.

There is no "one size suits all" approach to reforming health systems globally because no two health systems are alike. However, every nation should place a high priority on having a sustainable health system in place, as it not only guarantees improved health for its citizens but also promotes economic prosperity. Universal health coverage (UHC), which all UN member states aspire to achieve by 2030, can be challenging to attain in the absence of a well established health system.
Country with the highest health expenditure as a percentage of GDP
United States
U.S. national health expenditure
Over 4 billion U.S. dollars
Per capita consumer spending on healthcare worldwide
750 U.S. dollars

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Health economics
    Health policy
    Private health insurance
    Public health programs
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Medicare
Healthcare in India
Healthcare in Saudi Arabia
Healthcare for the elderly in the U.S.
Healthcare in the Middle East
Healthcare in Russia
Veteran health care system in the United States
Healthcare in Czechia
Health care in Israel
Trust in healthcare in the U.S.
Trust in healthcare worldwide
Health care system in Canada
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Health economics
Who spends the most?

Per capita health expenditure in selected countries in 2024 (in U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Per capita health expenditure in selected countries in 2024 (in U.S. dollars)

The amount a country spends on health care varies depending on its size, the health problems it faces, and the type of health system it has established. The United States spends almost 18 percent of its GDP on health care, which is more than any other country. The United States also spends around 12,318 U.S. dollars per capita on health expenditure, the highest in the world, followed by Germany and Switzerland.
Canada healthcare expenditure
Medical debt in the U.S.
Out-of-pocket health spending in the U.S.
Health policy
Which country is most satisfied with their health system?

Percentage of U.S. adults who rated the quality of health care they receive/their health care coverage as excellent or good from 2001 to 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Percentage of U.S. adults who rated the quality of health care they receive/their health care coverage as excellent or good from 2001 to 2023

Health systems, much like other social institutions, generally reflect the culture, history, and economics of a country. This is one reason why comparing health systems can be difficult. The countries where people are most satisfied with their health system include Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Belgium, and the United Kingdom. Within the United States, the health care system remains an issue of contention and political debate.
Americans without health insurance
Americans satisfaction with abortion policy
Obamacare
Private health insurance
Private health insurance still dominates in the U.S

Market share of leading health insurance companies in the United States as of 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market share of leading health insurance companies in the United States as of 2024

Private health insurance plans are those provided by private companies, in contrast to public health insurance plans that are provided by a government. The degree to which private insurance plans are available varies by country. In the United States, private health insurance, usually through an employer, is the most common type of health care coverage, with around 178 million people covered under private health insurance plans.
Employer sponsored health insurance in the U.S.
Medicare Advantage
UnitedHealth Group
Public health programs
The importance of Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S.

Enrollment in the Medicare program from 1966 to 2023, by type of beneficiary (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Enrollment in the Medicare program from 1966 to 2023, by type of beneficiary (in millions)

Many countries, such as the United Kingdom, have public health insurance plans funded through taxes. These plans often provide universal coverage and help ensure each citizen has access to the health services they need. Although the United States does not have a universal insurance plan, it does have public health plans for low-income families (Medicaid) and the elderly (Medicare). Currently, around 85 million people are enrolled in Medicaid, and 63.8 million people are enrolled in Medicare.
Medicare
U.S. hospitals punished for high readmission
Number of ACA-related enrollments
State of the industry

Industry Definition

A health system, or health care system, refers to the organizations, institutions, resources, and people that maintain, promote, and provide health care within a country. Countries fund their health systems in different ways, and most countries use a combination of methods. These methods include general taxation, a national health insurance plan, voluntary or private health insurance, out-of-pocket payments, or donations to charities. Health systems, along with the organizations and markets they encompass, vary widely around the world, which is one reason why international comparisons of health standards can be difficult and complicated.
Health, Pharma & Medtech

    Care & Support
    Health Professionals & Hospitals
    Health System
    Medical Technology
    Pharmaceutical Products & Market
    State of Health

More interesting topics from the industry "Health System"
Access to mental healthcare in Belgium
Americans without health insurance
Cardinal Health
Cigna
Contraception in the United Kingdom
Coronavirus (COVID-19) impact on the Belgian economy
Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Argentina
Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Belgium
Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Brazil
More interesting topics from the industry "Health System"
Health Economics

    Health expenditure in India
    Impact of inflation on U.S. healthcare
    Medical debt in the U.S.
    Out-of-pocket health care spending in the U.S.

Health Policy

    Abortion in France
    Health insurance claim denials in the U.S.
    Hospital price transparency rule
    Views on abortion in the U.S.

Private Health Insurance

    Employer-sponsored health insurance in the U.S.
    Health insurance in China
    Health insurance industry in Japan
    Private healthcare in Mexico
    Private healthcare in South Africa

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Health System" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

