# Geography & Nature

Geography & Nature

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Society
    ›Geography & Nature

Geography & Nature

This topic deals with the world around us, from physical landscapes, to animal populations, to man-made boundaries. The natural world is currently under threat from climate change, with detrimental effects being felt throughout all ecosystems. Animal populations are in decline or becoming imbalanced, deforestation and wildfires are wreaking havoc on the earth’s woodlands, and deserts are expanding while ice sheets melt. As nature does not abide by human borders, an international response is required to conserve and protect the natural world; however, the earth’s natural resources are a source of income for many individuals and organizations who are resistant to conservation.
Longest international border
Canada-United States
Largest desert in the world
Antarctic desert
Number of wild tigers in India
2,967

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Physical geography
    Human geography
    Animals & Plants
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Global geography
Bushfires in Australia
Amazon rainforest in Brazil
Global climate change
Megacities in the Asia-Pacific region
Global megacities
Natural disasters
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Physical geography
Untapped or over-tapped resources?

Ten countries with the largest forest area in 2023 (in million hectares)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Ten countries with the largest forest area in 2023 (in million hectares)

Physical geography deals with the processes, patterns and attributes of the natural world. These statistics deal with the height of the tallest mountains, to the deepest points of the ocean floor. The increasing necessity of nature as a renewable energy source means that understanding aspects of physical geography have never been so important. This includes the use of the earth’s waters for tidal and hydraulic energy, mountains and coastlines for wind energy, and volcanoes for geothermal energy.
Tallest mountains
Largest oceans
Longest coastlines
Human geography
Growing impact means growing responsibilities

The 30 largest countries and territories in the world by total area (in square kilometers)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic The 30 largest countries and territories in the world by total area (in square kilometers)

For millennia, human settlements have generally developed around water supplies, and the world’s waterways have been used for transport and trade. Additionally, humans have used physical geography, such as mountains, rivers, and coastlines, to define political borders. With time, settlements have grown to encroach on and pollute the natural world, and booming populations have seen large metropolises expand to become megalopolises; the largest of which have upwards of eighty million inhabitants.
Metropolitan areas in the U.S
Largest countries in South America
Largest countries in the Caribbean
Animals & Plants
The two natural kingdoms

Distribution of the main regional threats to wildlife populations in the Living Planet Index (LPI)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Distribution of the main regional threats to wildlife populations in the Living Planet Index (LPI)

Although species have naturally emerged or died out for millions of years, the rate at which many species are becoming extinct is increasing, and nature is becoming more homogenous. These occurrences are not only due to the destruction of natural ecosystems, but also result from climate change. Conservation efforts have increased in recent decades, and the topic is becoming more prevalent among the public; however, it remains to be seen how much ecological damage can be prevented (or reversed).
Animal health in the U.S.
Bushfires in Australia
Bird migrations
State of the industry

    Environmental quality in China
    Global deforestation
    Deforestation in Brazil
    Environment of India
    Geography of the Nordic countries

Industry Definition

Statista’s Geography and Nature data deals with the natural world, as well as human geographical aspects. Data relating to such topics as animal populations, land areas, and physical features can often be difficult to quantify, therefore the use of estimates becomes more important; Statista is committed to using only the most reliable and esteemed sources when it comes to these matters. Additional material is available in Statista’s “Energy & Environment” category, including data relating to climate and weather, emissions, energy, environmental technology, and water.
Society

    Crime & Law Enforcement
    Demographics
    Education & Science
    Geography & Nature
    Historical Data
    Religion

More interesting topics from the industry "Geography & Nature"
A stark warning for the climate crisis
Amazon rainforest in Brazil
Biodiversity loss
Bushfires in Australia
Climate change and health
Climate change effects
Climate change in China
Climate change in France
Climate change in India
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

