# Online Search

Online Search

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Internet
    ›Online Search

Online Search

With an established market led by companies like Google and Microsoft, the usage of search engines and assistants is an almost ubiquitous factor in the online experience. The ever-increasing insertion of the internet into everyday activities and services means more usage of these tools, resulting in more consumer data and potential for advertisers seeking to reach their target audience with ads. But higher scrutiny of how tech companies manage user data and online privacy, added to trends like artificial intelligence and chatbots to search engines, might make the online search market undergo substantial changes in the upcoming years.
Search advertising spending worldwide
279.35bn USD
Search market share of Google worldwide
91.47%
Search market share of Baidu in China
55.85%

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Industry leaders
    Local competitors
    Trends
    Challenges
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Online search market worldwide
Search advertising in the U.S.
Alphabet Inc.
Google
Bing
Search engines in China
AI-powered online search
Online search market in Europe
Online search market in the United States
Online search market in the United Kingdom
Online search market worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Search advertising leads internet ad spendings

Digital advertising spending worldwide from 2019 to 2029, by format (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Digital advertising spending worldwide from 2019 to 2029, by format (in billion U.S. dollars)

As seen from the success of the market leader Google over the last couple of decades, online search is a lucrative business, generating more than 300 billion USD for the company. By 2023, the search advertising expenditure in the United States was expected to reach 88.8 billion and over 279 billion USD worldwide.
Online search usage
Search advertising in the U.S.
Digital advertising revenue in the U.S. by format
Industry leaders
Google’s market dominance

Market share of leading desktop search engines worldwide from January 2015 to October 2025
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market share of leading desktop search engines worldwide from January 2015 to October 2025

Google is the dominant market leader in search, in large part thanks to the quality of the search engine itself which is powered by highly advanced algorithms. However, interoperability with the tech giant’s other products, as well as default settings on browsers and mobile devices helped to consolidate Google’s powerful position in the sector. Bing is the only real contender to Google in the English-language online search market, albeit with a far smaller market share in comparison.
Google
Google: search engine market share in selected countries
Bing
Local competitors
Alternative and regional search providers

U.S. customer satisfaction with internet portals and search engines in 2024 (index score)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic U.S. customer satisfaction with internet portals and search engines in 2024 (index score)

Many alternative search providers, like Ecosia and DuckDuckGo, use Bing to power their results through syndication agreements. These alternatives are trying to get a foothold in the search market by offering superior online privacy and, in Ecosia’s case, sustainability incentives. In China, where Google is not available due to disputes over censorship regulations, Baidu is the country’s preferred search engine. In Russia, Yandex is the market leader.
Search engines in China
Search engines in South Korea
Search engines alternative to Google
Trends
What are the most searched topics worldwide?

Top Google search queries worldwide in 2025 (index value)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Top Google search queries worldwide in 2025 (index value)

Online search is part of everyday life for anybody connected to the web. The searches for weather forecasts and access to social networks beat any current topic and remain some of the most popular queries worldwide. At the top, ranking only behind Google itself and YouTube, is the global interest in video as a keyword, showing the power and potential of this kind of content on the current internet landscape.
2023 in Google Searches
Most popular Google keywords worldwide
Most popular Google keywords in the U.S.
Challenges
When artificial intelligence enters the search game

Number of adults in the United States using generative artificial intelligence (AI) first for online search in 2024 and 2028 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of adults in the United States using generative artificial intelligence (AI) first for online search in 2024 and 2028 (in millions)

The release of ChatGPT warmed up the well-established online search market, forcing a new trend of chatbots that provide search results in the format of a conversation. With lots of enthusiasm from companies and users, the artificial intelligence-powered online search has already shaken the ground of leading companies, starting in a race with smaller competitors and startups to present the best candidate for a rather experimental and risky technology.
AI-powered online search
ChatGPT
Trust in AI-powered search engines for select actions
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Statista offers a wide range of statistics, facts, and survey data relating to online search engines. The platform provides up-to-date information on the number of search engine users, global and regional search volumes, as well as online search usage trends and demographics.

In this section, users can find comprehensive data on the world’s leading search engines and internet companies. Statista’s reports and rankings cover everything from reach and penetration rates to visitor numbers, annual revenue figures, and desktop and mobile market shares of the most popular search portals worldwide. Information surrounding trending keywords and technologies can also be found.
Internet

    Communications
    Cyber Crime & Security
    Demographics & Use
    Mobile Internet & Apps
    Online Search
    Online Video & Entertainment
    Reach & Traffic
    Social Media & User-Generated Content

More interesting topics from the industry "Online Search"
AI and online traffic
AI-powered online search
Alphabet Inc.
Baidu Inc.
Bing
Digitalization of the travel industry
Dropshipping in France
Ecosia
Google
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

