# Reach & Traffic

Reach & Traffic

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Internet
    ›Reach & Traffic

Reach & Traffic

Web traffic is one of the most important metrics to measure performance and success online. What are the most popular websites? How long do internet users spend online, and what content do they engage most with? What kind of devices are used to go online and how has this changed in the past few years? After battling it out with Yahoo since 2006, Google claimed the top spot as the most popular website worldwide in 2010, holding this position ever since.
World's most visited website
Google
Share of global web traffic via mobile
>50%
Share of mobile web traffic in Nigeria
>80%

    Overview
    Market leaders
    Segment outlook
    Digital traffic
    Industry Definition

Market leaders
What are the most popular online websites?

Most popular websites worldwide as of August 2025, by total visits (in billions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most popular websites worldwide as of August 2025, by total visits (in billions)

Google, Facebook, Amazon… these names are familiar to online users. Apart from being some of the biggest tech companies, the websites belonging to these digital giants are also consistently ranked among the most popular web properties online. Search platform Google.com is the most visited website worldwide with more than 88.4 billion monthly visits from global online audiences in November 2022. Google’s video platform YouTube.com is ranked second with 74.8 billion visits per month.
Top websites worldwide
Google sites: advertising revenue
Statistics and facts about Google, Amazon, Meta, Apple, and Microsoft (GAMAM)
Segment outlook
Mobile is the way forward

Mobile internet traffic as percentage of total web traffic in November 2025, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Mobile internet traffic as percentage of total web traffic in November 2025, by region

In early 2024, mobile accounted for almost 60 percent of global online traffic and this trend is constantly accelerating. Some regions which have traditionally lagged in fixed-line online development are considered mobile first – in Africa, over 75 percent of web traffic comes from mobile phones, with many online users not having access to desktop devices at all. In contrast, Oceania’s online usage is still predominantly via desktop.
Share of mobile internet traffic in selected regions
Latin America and the Caribbean share of web traffic by device
Share of total global visitor traffic to YouTube by device
Digital traffic
Effects of the mobile shift

Percentage of mobile device website traffic worldwide from 1st quarter 2015 to 2nd quarter 2025
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Percentage of mobile device website traffic worldwide from 1st quarter 2015 to 2nd quarter 2025

Desktop browsing is no longer automatically the most popular method of accessing online content, with more than half of the world population accessing the internet via mobile devices. The global increase in mobile connectivity with technologies like 5G is a major push in democratizing and spreading internet access, allowing growth of sectors like e-commerce, social media, online search, and advertising.
Internet usage penetration in the U.S. by gender and device
Annual growth in e-commerce traffic in the Nordics by device
Traffic share of travel and hospitality websites worldwide 2022-2023, by device
Industry Definition

Statista offers a wide range of statistics on internet reach and traffic. In this section, users can find global and country-specific internet penetration rates, information on consumer IP traffic, and comprehensive web traffic projections alike.

The platform provides relevant insights into the latest online usage trends and internet traffic patterns. Up-to-date information on desktop and mobile data traffic can be found along with visitor numbers and market shares for leading internet conglomerates. Based on these and other key performance indicators, Statista also identifies the most visited websites, multi-platform web properties, and the most popular mobile apps worldwide.
Internet

    Communications
    Cyber Crime & Security
    Demographics & Use
    Mobile Internet & Apps
    Online Search
    Online Video & Entertainment
    Reach & Traffic
    Social Media & User-Generated Content

More interesting topics from the industry "Reach & Traffic"
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in Europe
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in France
Beauty and personal care e-commerce in the Nordics
BuzzFeed Inc.
Coronavirus: impact on online usage in the U.S.
COVID-19 impact on the media industry in Germany
Internet freedom in South Korea
Internet in Australia
Internet usage demographics in the United Kingdom (UK)
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

