# Crime & Law Enforcement

Crime & Law Enforcement

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Society
    ›Crime & Law Enforcement

Crime & Law Enforcement

The prevention of crime and the enforcement of the law is a central duty of any successful state. Countries with lower levels of crime generally have better qualities of life and typically enjoy more economic prosperity than those with higher levels. Although societies are heavily invested in reducing crime, there is no agreed way of doing this, with several different approaches worldwide. Bringing an end to coercive and unfair law enforcement practices will certainly be an important issue going forward, especially after several high-profile cases of police brutality. Crime and law enforcement is also not untouched by technological advances, and how cyber-crime is battled will also be a defining issue in the coming decades.
Number of prisoners in the United States
1.2 million
Country with lowest global peace index
Afghanistan
Number of terrorist attacks worldwide
10,172

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Violent Crime
    Police and law enforcement
    Justice System
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Crime in the United States
Crime in the UK
Crime in Germany
Crime in Russia
Crime and penitentiary system in China
Crime worldwide
Terrorism
Terrorism in Europe
Crime in the UK
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Violent Crime
Which countries have the worst murder rates?

Ranking of the most dangerous cities in the world in 2025, by crime rate per 100,000 inhabitants
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Ranking of the most dangerous cities in the world in 2025, by crime rate per 100,000 inhabitants

Several of the world’s most violent cities, in terms of having a high murder rate, are located in Latin America, often due to factors such as drug trafficking, gang warfare and political instability. Outside of this region, the United State also has relatively high levels of violent crime, especially when compared to neighboring Canada or European countries. In both Europe and the United States however, crime in modern times is far lower than it was in the second-half of the twentieth century,
Number of violent crimes in the United States
UK crime rate
Homicide rate in Russia
Police and law enforcement
Growing calls for police reform

Number of people shot to death by the police in the United States from 2017 to 2024, by race
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of people shot to death by the police in the United States from 2017 to 2024, by race

Police and law enforcement bodies are one of the most visible aspects of the state in modern societies. Used by governments to enforce the rule of law, police forces are often granted broad powers, such as the use of force, in order to protect the societies they are responsible for. Recent instances of excessive police force have ignited debates about alternatives to policing, particularly in the United States after the murder of George Floyd by arresting police officers.
Number of police officers in Great Britain
Police budget in U.S. cities
Support for police reform in the U.S
Justice System
Which country has the highest incarceration rate?

Number of people in prison per 100,000 of population as of May 2021, by country
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of people in prison per 100,000 of population as of May 2021, by country

While police are generally the front line of the criminal justice system, they exist as part of a much bigger criminal justice system, which includes, lawyers, judges, courts, and prisons. Although there are several different legal systems operating in the world, all of these systems ultimately aim to rehabilitate or punish offenders. One way of comparing justice systems across countries is through the incarceration rate, which measures what share of the total population is currently in prison.
US incarceration rate by state
Average UK prison sentences
Death rate in prison custody Australia
State of the industry

Industry Definition

This category provides statistics and facts on topics related to crime and law enforcement, including crime figures, crime rates, terrorism, and data related to law enforcement and the criminal justice system.
Society

    Crime & Law Enforcement
    Demographics
    Education & Science
    Geography & Nature
    Historical Data
    Religion

More interesting topics from the industry "Crime & Law Enforcement"
Aboriginal crime and justice in Canada
Abortion in Latin America
Alcohol abuse in Canada
Amsterdam
Anti-Semitism in Europe
Child abuse in the United States
Child sex abuse in France
Cocaine in Europe
Copenhagen
More interesting topics from the industry "Crime & Law Enforcement"
Drug Crime

    Organized crime in East and Southern Africa
    Substance use in South Korea

Fraud & Identity Theft

    Ad fraud
    E-commerce fraud

Justice System

    Death penalty in the United States
    Indian justice system
    Legal services in France
    Legal services in Japan
    Prisoners in the United States

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Crime & Law Enforcement" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

