# Demographics

Demographics

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Society
    ›Demographics

Demographics

Demographics is the statistical study of human populations and characteristics. Demographic data can include information on population size, density, growth, and organizational groupings such as race, gender, or age. Institutions like the U.S. Census Bureau conduct surveys to gather information about the nation's citizens on a regular basis. The population of the United States tends to be ethnically diverse due to the country’s history of immigration which made it a cultural melting pot.
Continent with the highest population share
Asia
Life expectancy at birth for women in the UK
82.9 years
Population of the U.S.
332 million

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Population size
    Births, Deaths, Life Expectance
    Marriage & Divorce
    Migration
    Poverty
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Demographic development
Population
Demographics of Japan
Pregnancy
Births in the U.S.
Demographics of the UK
Employment in the U.S.
Millennials and health in the U.S.
Migration in the EU
Immigration in the United States
Death in the U.S.
Demographics in MENA
Population in the GCC
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Population size
Demography: the complicated science

Estimated population of selected European countries in 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Estimated population of selected European countries in 2024

A population is a collection of the same species or humans. The study of demography focuses on statistics of populations. The world population is well over seven billion people and growing. Counting and classifying such a large population is no easy task. Institutions like the U.S. Census Bureau conduct surveys to gather information about the nation's citizens on a regular basis.
Global population
China's population
Demography
Births, Deaths, Life Expectance
Are people living longer?

Average life expectancy at birth in 2024, by continent and gender (in years)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average life expectancy at birth in 2024, by continent and gender (in years)

Despite the declining birth rate in many developed countries, the population is still growing due to the increasing life expectancies. Life expectancy is the average number of years until death that a person has remaining at any given age. Largely due to improvements in modern medicine, the average life expectancy around the world has greatly increased in recent decades with only a few exceptions. However, cancer and heart disease continue to be some of the largest causes of death.
Births in the U.S.
Births in the UK
Death in the UK
Marriage & Divorce
Is marriage an outdated concept?

Number of married couples in the United States from 1960 to 2023 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of married couples in the United States from 1960 to 2023 (in millions)

The frequency of marriages has declined in many countries as more and more adults find marriage to be an outdated concept. On the other hand, the rate of divorce is also low in these areas. However, this may be due to the low rates of marriages. The legalization of same-sex marriages helped to increase the number of weddings in those regions.
Weddings and Marriage
Divorce in the U.S.
Marriage in the UK
Migration
Where is everyone going?

Number of refugees arriving in the United States in the fiscal year of 2024, by region of origin
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of refugees arriving in the United States in the fiscal year of 2024, by region of origin

Either through necessity, or desire, people travel and move their homes and families to different countries every day. Europe sees thousands of displaced citizens from countries like Syria or Iraq cross its borders to escape war and persecution. At the same time, many want to move to another country simply to improve their living conditions and find better employment opportunities. Refugee resettlement agencies and immigration departments oversee much of migration movements.
Migration in Europe
Illegal immigration in the U.S.
Migration in Australia
Poverty
What is the poorest part of the world?

Poverty rates in OECD countries as of 2022
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Poverty rates in OECD countries as of 2022

Global institutions, like World Bank or the U.S. Census Bureau at the national level, calculate the poverty within a country based off the share of the population that possess “… low incomes and the inability to acquire the basic goods and services necessary for survival with dignity.” – World Bank. Extreme poverty is living on less than 1.25 U.S. dollars a day (Purchasing Power Parity) and moderate poverty is living on less than two U.S. dollars a day.
Statistics and facts about poverty
Poverty in the UK
Homelessness in the U.S.
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The demographics category offers data on the population statistics from institutions around the world. Within this sector, Statista provides information about the growth rates, and movements, of peoples from several backgrounds and nationalities. Additionally, data on demographics on a global, regional, and local scale is available, as well as data on the migration of peoples through multiple regions and their demographics.
The world population is well over seven billion people and growing. Counting and classifying such a large population is no easy task. However, institutions like the U.S. Census Bureau and the World Bank conduct surveys and fact finding missions to gather information about a nation's citizens on a regular basis. Statista provides the collaborative data from such surveys and missions covering every facet of demography.
Society

    Crime & Law Enforcement
    Demographics
    Education & Science
    Geography & Nature
    Historical Data
    Religion

More interesting topics from the industry "Demographics"
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in Australia
Activism in the United States
Aging population in China
Aging population in Indonesia
Aging population in Italy
Aging population of Singapore
Alberta
Amsterdam
Bali
More interesting topics from the industry "Demographics"
Births, Deaths, Life Expectancy

    Aging populations
    Births in Germany
    Cancer in South Korea
    Death in South Korea
    Death in the Benelux
    Demographics of Japan
    Fertility decline in Japan
    Life expectancy through history
    Long-term care in Japan
    Pregnancies, newborns, and babies in Italy
    Pregnancy and childcare in South Korea
    Pregnancy in Japan
    State of health in South Korea
    State of health in Southeast Asia
    State of health in the Asia-Pacific region
    Suicide in South Korea
    Tokyo

Marriage & Divorce

    Family and marriage in the Middle East
    Love and sex in Japan
    Marriage and weddings in the UK
    Marriage in the Benelux
    Marriages and civil unions in Italy
    Marriages in India
    Wedding industry in the UK
    Weddings and Marriage
    Weddings and marriage in Germany

Migration

    Asylum seekers and refugees in Europe
    Asylum seekers and refugees in France
    Foreign workforce in GCC
    French immigration bill
    History of migration to the U.S.
    Illegal immigration in Spain
    Immigration in Africa
    Immigration in Nigeria
    Immigration in Spain
    Immigration in the United States
    Indian diaspora
    Integration in Denmark
    Integration in Iceland
    Integration in Norway
    Integration in Sweden
    Intraregional migration in Latin America
    Labor migration worldwide
    Migration
    Migration in Brazil
    Migration in Denmark
    Migration in Iceland
    Migration in India
    Migration in Ireland
    Migration in Japan
    Migration in Mexico
    Migration in Norway
    Migration in Sweden
    Migration in the UK
    Modern slavery worldwide
    Organized crime in East and Southern Africa
    Refugees and IDPs worldwide
    Ukrainians in Poland
    Unaccompanied foreign minors in Spain

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Demographics" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

