# Religion

Religion

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Society
    ›Religion

Religion

Religion plays an fundamental role in society. Despite individual views and most states' agnosticism, religion defines many aspects of life, culture, history, and ideas. From widespread traditions to ethical stances, religion has an undoubted presence in our lives. Nevertheless, religions are given a different place and status from country to country. For instance, in some regions of the world, religious and governmental decisions go hand in hand, whereas in other countries, politics is not influenced by religious beliefs.

In terms of number of adherents, Christianity is the largest religion in the world. Over two billion people on earth identify themselves as Christian, while more than 1.5 billion individuals are Muslim, the second largest religion. Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism, and Judaism follow as the world's most popular religions. Nevertheless, when looking at the different groups among the global population, a large share of people do not belong to any religion.
Largest Religion Worldwide
Christianity
Fastest growing major religion
Islam
Country with the most people believing in God
Indonesia

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    The world is becoming more religious, not less
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
World Religions
Religion in Europe
Religion in India
Christianity in the U.S.
Islam in the UK
Religion in France
Religious preferences of Canadians
Anti-Semitism in Europe
Minority religions in Spain
Religion in Australia
Islam in the Netherlands
Religious tourism in India
Ramadan
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
The world is becoming more religious, not less
Religion in the 21st Century

Total worldwide adherents of largest world religions and faiths in 2010 and projected adherents in 2050
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Total worldwide adherents of largest world religions and faiths in 2010 and projected adherents in 2050

While governments around the world have largely come to embrace secularism and a separation between church and state, with some notable exceptions such as Saudi Arabia and Iran, the number of religious people on the planet is set to increase in the coming century. This is largely because of a growing number of Christians and Muslims in regions such as the Arabic-speaking world and Sub-Saharan Africa which have high fertility rates, while Buddhists are the only group predicted to fall in number.
Religion in India
Christianity in the U.S.
Ramadan
State of the industry

    Religion in France
    Minority religions in Spain
    Global halal market
    Religion and religiosity in India

Industry Definition

The Religion category includes data on religious adherence, attendence, and religious minorities as well as opinions on different aspects of religion. For instance, data shows how often people attend religious services, which religion they belong to, and how certain religious traditions are celebrated, from Christmas to Ramadan. Moreover, studies and statistics can be found on various forms of prejudice and hostility towards religious groups, such as Anti-Semitism, or discrimination against religious minorities. Additionally, this branch shows the results of several surveys on the perception of religions, rites, and ethical issues.
Society

    Crime & Law Enforcement
    Demographics
    Education & Science
    Geography & Nature
    Historical Data
    Religion

More interesting topics from the industry "Religion"
Anti-Semitism in Europe
Catholic Church
Ceremonial services industry in Japan
Christianity in the U.S.
Current political situation in Iran
Dalits and Adivasis in India
Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos)
Do women have any rights in Saudi Arabia?
Global halal market
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

