# DIY Retail

DIY Retail

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›DIY Retail

DIY Retail

The DIY (Do-It-Yourself) industry aims to help customers improve their homes without the need for any extra professional help. The market is driven in part by the growth of the residential real estate industry and by change in people's lifestyles. Bricolage, house decoration, and outdoor spaces, such as gardens or balconies, are common areas to which DIYers dedicate their spare time. On a global scale, hardware and building materials generate the highest revenue compared to other sectors in the industry, such as flooring, bathroom hardware, paint supplies, and tools. In 2023, the revenue of building materials was forecast to reach over 1.7 billion U.S. dollars.
Leading home improvement retailer worldwide
The Home Depot
Revenue of hardware and building materials worldwide
1.7bn EUR
Number of hardware retail stores in Germany
2,050

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Home improvement in the U.S.
DIY retail in Japan
The Home Depot
Smart home
Home appliances
Haier Smart Home
Small home appliances
Flower market in the Netherlands
Furniture industry worldwide
Toys & Hobby eCommerce: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
The United States is DIY’s most mature market

Do-it-yourself sales in the United States from 2013 to 2028, by store type (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Do-it-yourself sales in the United States from 2013 to 2028, by store type (in billion U.S. dollars)

The majority of the DIY market revenue is generated in home centers. In the United States, home center sales are estimated to reach 379 billion U.S. dollars in 2027. In contrast, the Canadian DIY and home improvement market is substantially smaller than the U.S. market. However, it is still experiencing a healthy level of growth. DIY is also a very big industry in Europe, with a wide range of businesses set up in nearly all European countries.
Home improvement in the U.S.
Most popular online home improvement stores in Poland
Top home improvement retailers in Canada
Market segments
The flooring market is on the rise

Value of the global flooring market from 2022 to 2031 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Value of the global flooring market from 2022 to 2031 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Important market segments of the DIY industry include flooring, décor, gardening, lumberyards, building materials, painting & wallpaper, and tools & hardware. By 2031, the global flooring market is expected to grow to some 420 billion U.S. dollars. Key factors include increasing construction spending and growth in real estate projects.
Weekly retail sales of floor coverings in the UK
Landscaping in the U.S.
Top kitchen floor materials in the U.S.
Industry trends
Establishing an omnichannel approach to shopping

Toys, hobby & DIY e-commerce users in the United Kingdom from 2017 to 2029, by segment (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Toys, hobby & DIY e-commerce users in the United Kingdom from 2017 to 2029, by segment (in millions)

The convenience offered by online stores is one major trend in the DIY industry. However, many still see the value in traditional in-store shopping. While some consumers utilize buy-online-pick-up-in-store options, others begin their product search online and proceed to buy in physical stores. Building online communities, such as creating an inspiration or tutorial channel, can provide added value to the shopping experience and help motivate and encourage consumers to tackle a DIY project.
Global furniture e-commerce market size
E-commerce revenue in the DIY sector in Germany
Global visits to IKEA.com
Industry leaders
The Home Depot, leading DIY retailer worldwide

Global net sales of the Home Depot from 2013 to 2024, by product category (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global net sales of the Home Depot from 2013 to 2024, by product category (in million U.S. dollars)

With nearly 153 billion U.S. dollars in global sales in 2023, the U.S. company The Home Depot is not only the region's leading DIY and home improvement retailer, but also the world's leading company in the industry. The company's most lucrative product category is the indoor garden category, which generated global sales of nearly 15 billion U.S. dollars, followed by appliances, which reached almost 14 billion U.S. dollars.
The Home Depot's net sales worldwide
Lowe's net sales worldwide
Kingfisher’s sales revenue, by country
State of the industry

    DIY and home improvement market in the Netherlands
    Home improvement in the U.S.
    DIY & home improvement e-commerce in the Baltics
    DIY & Hardware Store: market data & analysis
    DIY retail in Japan

Industry definition

In the DIY retail category, Statista offers information on global revenues, market leaders and their key performance indicators, number of stores, and total expenditure. Information about the DIY’s industry segments, such as the flooring market, indoor gardening, home décor, lumberyards, building materials, paint, wallpaper, tools and hardware are also included.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "DIY Retail"
DIY & home improvement e-commerce in the Baltics
DIY and home improvement in Italy
DIY and home improvement market in Australia
DIY and home improvement market in Canada
DIY and home improvement market in France
DIY and home improvement market in the UK
DIY retail in Japan
DIY, home improvement, and furniture retail in Scandinavia
Furniture and appliance market in France
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

