# Food & Beverage

Food & Beverage

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Food & Beverage

Food & Beverage

The retail landscape has become extremely competitive with high pressure coming from multiple retail formats. Traditional grocers operate in the same market as hard discount stores, which have seen recent growth due to inflation. Meanwhile, physical stores benefit from new technologies and online channels. This blending of in-store and online purchases enables consumers to shape their own unique and personalized shopping experiences.
Consumer behavior has played a significant role in shaping the evolving landscape of food retail. An example of this is the rise of ready meals, available for purchase in stores or through online subscriptions with home delivery, granting consumers the opportunity to recreate the restaurant experience within their own homes. Home delivery of groceries has also become a fiercely competitive arena, with retailers and third-party services vying to provide the lowest fees and quickest delivery times.
Leading retailer worldwide for edible groceries
Walmart
Leading supermarket in the United States
The Kroger Co.
Leading company in the food retail sector in Europe
Schwarz-Gruppe

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Food retail in the United States
Food retail in Canada
Food retail in Japan
Food retail in South Korea
Food retail in India
Supermarkets in the U.S.
Supermarkets and grocery stores in Canada
Supermarkets in the United Kingdom (UK)
Supermarkets in Mexico
Online food delivery
Food industry in Brazil
Food retail in Germany
Food retail in the United States
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
How is food retail growing?

Food and beverage retail store sales in the United States from 2018 to 2022, by format (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Food and beverage retail store sales in the United States from 2018 to 2022, by format (in million U.S. dollars)

Over the course of five years, food and beverage retail store sales have seen a substantial growth, with an increase of close to 30 percent. First the impact of the pandemic and later that of food inflation, as well as shifts in consumer behavior have shaped the industry landscape. While all food & beverage retails formats displayed growth, convenience stores exhibited the highest overall growth. Conversely, specialty food stores exhibited the lowest level of growth in comparison
Number of stores of the leading supermarkets in the U.S.
Supermarket sales in the U.S.
Food and beverage store monthly sales in the U.S.
Market segments
Supermarkets remain king in food retail

Sales share of food and beverage retail in the United States in 2022, by format
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Sales share of food and beverage retail in the United States in 2022, by format

Food and beverage stores constitute a considerable chunk of food retail sales, making them one of the most profitable industry segments. Despite the growth of convenience stores sales, their share still remains quite low at just under five percent in 2022. It is supermarkets and grocery stores which still make up the lion's share, and accounted for 85 percent of the market in the same year.
U.S. convenience stores
Online grocery in the UK
Alcoholic beverage retailers in Nordic countries
Industry trends
Surge of online grocery delivery

Revenue of the online food delivery market worldwide from 2017 to 2030, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of the online food delivery market worldwide from 2017 to 2030, by segment (in billion U.S. dollars)

Online grocery delivery has experienced remarkable growth, with the pandemic serving as a driving force behind this trend. Demand for food and grocery delivery has skyrocketed as a result, driving significant growth in industry revenues. The global food delivery market generated over one trillion U.S. dollars in revenue in 2023, of which 640 billion dollars came from the grocery delivery segment alone.
Revenue of the online food delivery market in countries around the world
Penetration rate of the online food delivery market in countries around the world
Industry leaders
Traditional retailers and newcomers

Kroger's supermarket sales from 2014 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Kroger's supermarket sales from 2014 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Kroger is the main supermarket banner in the United States, generating 132.3 billion U.S. dollars from its supermarket sales. In Europe, Schwarz-Gruppe and Tesco are the main multinational groups, operating in several retail sectors besides food and beverage. Other leading grocery retailers include the French retailer Carrefour and the Germany-based hard discount supermarket Aldi, which has been steadily increasing its number of U.S. stores.
Supermarkets in the U.S.
Tesco PLC
Number of Carrefour stores worldwide
State of the industry

Industry definition

The food & beverage retail category includes statistics on retail distribution channels and purchase locations including mass merchandisers, supermarkets, bakeries, and confectioners, as well as stores selling alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine, and liquor.
In addition to key performance indicators describing the performance and profitability of physical grocery stores, the category also presents financial highlights and business results of main retail companies. Besides this, it provides survey data about the general attitude of consumers towards grocery shopping.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Food & Beverage"
Agri-food products with signs identifying quality and origin in France
Alcohol consumption in France
Alcohol industry in Denmark
Alcohol industry in Finland
Alcohol industry in Norway
Alcohol industry in Sweden
Alcohol market in India
Alcohol market in Italy
Alcohol market in Poland
More interesting topics from the industry "Food & Beverage"
Bakeries & Confectioners

    Cafes and coffee shops in the United Kingdom
    Chocolate in the U.S.
    Confectionery market in Poland
    Greggs
    Lindt & Sprüngli

Beer, Wine & Liquor stores

    Alcohol market in Romania
    Alcohol market in Russia
    Baijiu industry in China
    Beer industry in China
    Beer market in Czechia
    Beer market in Romania
    Consumption of alcoholic beverages in Germany
    Foodservice in Spain
    Whiskey market in India
    Wine e-commerce in Italy
    Wine market in Finland
    Wine market in Poland
    Winemaking in Germany

Supermarkets

    Albert Heijn
    Albertsons Companies
    Alcoholic beverage retailers in the Nordic countries
    Aldi customers in Germany
    Breakfast cereals in the UK
    Conad
    Convenience stores in Japan
    Convenience stores in Thailand
    Convenience stores in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Discount grocery stores in Germany
    Discount grocery stores in Italy
    Grocery retailers in Finland
    Health and functional foods market in Japan
    Hypermarkets and supermarkets in France
    John Lewis Partnership
    Lidl customers in Germany
    Loblaws
    Mercadona
    Ocado
    Online food delivery in Poland
    Online food delivery in the Netherlands
    Online grocery shopping in Australia
    Online grocery shopping in Mexico
    Organic supermarkets in Germany
    Picnic Online Supermarket
    Publix Super Markets
    Sainsbury group in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Supermarkets and grocery retail in Australia
    Supermarkets and grocery retail in New Zealand
    Supermarkets and grocery stores in Canada
    Supermarkets and hypermarkets in China
    Supermarkets and hypermarkets in Italy
    Supermarkets in Brazil
    Supermarkets in Colombia
    Supermarkets in Mexico
    Supermarkets in Spain
    Supermarkets in the Netherlands
    Supermarkets in the U.S.
    Supermarkets in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Tesco PLC
    The Carrefour Group
    The Co-operative Group
    Whole Foods Market

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

