# General Merchandise

General Merchandise

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›General Merchandise

General Merchandise

The term ‘retail apocalypse’ gained widespread use amid the massive number of closures of brick-and-mortar retail stores due to the rapid growth of e-commerce, changing consumer patterns, and economic circumstances . In North America and Europe, this phenomenon has crippled traditional shopping formats such as malls, high street retail, and department stores. In the past years, there has been a decline in the number of department stores as well as malls across these regions. Now more than ever, retailers are seeing the need to focus on turning their stores into experiential spaces, as a way of getting customers to walk through their doors once again.
Certain sectors of the industry have proved more resilient to these trends, however. Convenience stores and dollar stores in the United States are examples. Due to the worsened economic circumstances faced by consumers around the world in 2022 and 2023 consumer spending remained strong at value chains, such as Dollar General.
Retail vacancy rate in the U.S.
4%
Number of convenience stores in Great Britain
49,388
Net sales of Dollar General in the United States
38.69bn USD

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Shopping centers in the U.S.
Department stores in the U.S.
Department stores in the United Kingdom (UK)
Dollar stores in the U.S.
Convenience stores in the U.S.
Macy's
Target
Walmart
Discount grocery stores in Germany
Hypermarkets and supermarkets in France
Retail theft in the United States
Shopping centers in Latin America
Shopping centers in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Brick-and-mortar retail is still alive

Total retail sales in the United States from 1992 to 2024 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Total retail sales in the United States from 1992 to 2024 (in million U.S. dollars)

In-store retail will continue to represent the largest share of retail sales worldwide, and both online and in-store sales are forecast to grow. U.S convenience stores have seen in-store sales growth in recent years. Discount stores account for just over 40 percent of total food retail in Germany, one of the leaders in the segment. However, department store sales growth was forecast to fall in the UK, while in the U.S. sales have shown a sharp downward trend since the beginning of the 2000s.
Largest private convenience stores and gas stations U.S.
Germany food revenue share of discounters
U.S. department store sales
Market segments
A shift in mall and department store strategies

Average sales per store of selected department stores in the United States in 2024 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average sales per store of selected department stores in the United States in 2024 (in million U.S. dollars)

Fueled by consumer demand for food and non-retail services like health care, shopping centers are shifting their strategy towards offering a more varied mix of retailers and moving away from anchoring to major department stores. Department stores like J.C. Penney, along with other U.S. mall-based retailers, closed thousands of stores in the U.S., as the downward trend in the industry’s sales continued. However, department stores are adopting innovative approaches to attract consumers.
Shopping centers in the United States
Macy's
Shopping centers in Latin America
Industry trends
Unification of brick-and-mortar, technology, and e-commerce

Retail e-commerce sales worldwide from 2022 to 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Retail e-commerce sales worldwide from 2022 to 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Convenience stores, department stores, and malls are increasing their efforts to enter digital channels to provide a fully integrated experience. Top department stores and discounters, like Walmart and Target, rank amongst the leading brands with the highest e-commerce sales and had some of the most popular mobile shopping apps in the United States. As a result, Walmart has installed thousands of delivery and pick up locations in the United States.
Top online stores in the U.S.
Most downloaded shopping apps in the U.S.
Number of Walmart delivery and pickup stores
Industry leaders
Walmart wears the retail crown

Worldwide retail sales of the leading U.S. retailers in 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Worldwide retail sales of the leading U.S. retailers in 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

While Amazon leads the way in e-commerce sales, Walmart is the champion of physical retail, and had the highest retail revenue by a distance in 2023. The United States is home to the world’s top warehouse clubs. Costco, for example, operates over 860 stores worldwide. In December 2023 alone, U.S. warehouse clubs and superstores generated over 64 billion U.S. dollars. Convenience store leaders include 7-Eleven, Oxxo in Latin America, and the Canadian brand Circle K.
7-Eleven global store numbers
Costco Warehouse Corporation
U.S. warehouse club retail sales
State of the industry

Industry definition

Statista offers a wide range of statistics on general merchandise including convenience stores and gas stations, shopping centers, department stores, discount and dollar stores, supercenters and hypermarkets, and warehouse clubs. In terms of convenience stores, statistics on frequency of visits, sales, and the number of stores are provided. Data on shopping centers include the largest and busiest malls, vacancy rates, as well as information on shopping center operators. Regarding department stores, discounter and dollar stores, and supercenter and hypermarkets, statistics about industry leaders and their financial performance are included. Finally, the warehouse club section comprises information on the main players and their key facts.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "General Merchandise"
Commercial real estate estate market in Germany
Department stores in South Korea
Hypermarkets and supermarkets in France
Marks and Spencer
Mercadona
Online marketplaces in Italy
Organic products retail in France
Retail chains in China
Retail channels in France
More interesting topics from the industry "General Merchandise"
Convenience Stores and Gas Stations

    Convenience stores in Australia
    Convenience stores in Canada
    Convenience stores in Japan
    Convenience stores in South Korea
    Convenience stores in Thailand
    Convenience stores in the U.S.
    Convenience stores in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Gas stations in the U.S.

Department Stores

    Department stores in Australia
    Department stores in Canada
    Department stores in the U.S.
    Department stores in the United Kingdom (UK)
    El Corte Inglés
    Hudson's Bay Company
    John Lewis Partnership
    Macy's
    TJX Companies 

Discounter & Dollar Stores

    Discount grocery stores in Germany
    Discount grocery stores in Italy
    Discount grocery stores in the U.S.
    Discounters in Europe
    Dollar stores in Canada
    Dollar stores in the U.S.
    Poultry industry in Canada
    Poultry industry in the United States
    Smokeless tobacco in the United States
    Target
    Walmart
    Walmart in Mexico

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "General Merchandise" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

