# Office Supplies

Office Supplies

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Office Supplies

Office Supplies

Home-office has become part of the new normal worldwide. As visits to traditional offices have become a special occasion, and paperwork continues to migrate to digital platforms, the demand for core stationery products, such as pens and paper has also declined. In the meantime, sales and demand for home office items, standalone desks, headphones, monitors, and similar equipment had grown. The United States and Europe are the industry’s top mature markets, driven by the trend of online ordering. Latin America and Asia-Pacific, on the other hand, are low maturity regions where global players do not have a strong presence, thus presenting a significant potential market for expansion and development.
Office supplies export value worldwide
18.1bn USD
Leading export country of office supplies
China
Office supplies import value worldwide
18.5bn USD

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Back-to-school
Back-to-college
Commercial real estate in the United Kingdom
Office real estate in London
Commercial real estate estate market in Germany
Remote work in Spain
Office real estate in the U.S.
Office real estate market in Europe
Hybrid work
Home Office Furniture: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Office supplies and stationery revenues on the rise in the UK

Consumer spending on stationery and drawing materials in the United Kingdom (UK) from 1st quarter 2012 to 1st quarter 2025 (in million British pounds)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Consumer spending on stationery and drawing materials in the United Kingdom (UK) from 1st quarter 2012 to 1st quarter 2025 (in million British pounds)

In the United Kingdom, consumer spending on office supplies and stationery store has fluctuated throughout the years. Throughout the financial year of 2023 expenditure remained consistently above the one-billion mark. Despite the fluctuation, expenditure on drawing materials, pens, and paper has risen and even exceeded pre-pandemic numbers.
Stationary consumption in the UK, by volume
Office supply stores Canada
Number of newspapers and stationery retail stores in the UK
Market segments
Demand for school supplies on the rise

Amount U.S. consumers planned to spend on back-to-college school supplies from 2007 to 2025 (in U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Amount U.S. consumers planned to spend on back-to-college school supplies from 2007 to 2025 (in U.S. dollars)

The industry's segments encompass stationery, school supplies, and office supplies, combined with PCs, office equipment, and office-specific furniture. In the United Kingdom, consumer spending on pencils, paperboard binders, folders, envelopes, and notebooks have shown an upward trend in recent years. The same could be said about the United States, where shoppers shared that they planned to spend on average 95 U.S. dollars on school supplies, the highest recorded amount during the period shown.
Total back-to-school spending in the U.S.
Office supplies stores in Canada, by province
Office supplies manufacturers in Canada, by province
Industry trends
Growing online sales of office stationery and supplies

Online traffic of stationery and office supplies retailers in the United Kingdom (UK) in 2024, by traffic score
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Online traffic of stationery and office supplies retailers in the United Kingdom (UK) in 2024, by traffic score

Consumer convenience, easy payments, and lower costs are some of the reasons why online sales present immense benefits and growth opportunities for the industry. Moreover, the increasing demand for recyclable stationery products is another major trend driving market growth. Many end-users are opting for eco-friendly products driving suppliers to reinvent themselves into eco-friendly entities.
Top office supplies online stores in Poland
Online stationery sales in South Korea
Most reviewed stationery websites in the UK
Industry leaders
Office supplies around the world

Revenue of Zebra (Flying Tiger Copenhagen) from 2012 to 2024 (in million Danish kroner)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of Zebra (Flying Tiger Copenhagen) from 2012 to 2024 (in million Danish kroner)

Based in Denmark and with geographical presence across most of Europe and Asia, Flying Tiger Copenhagen is a prominent figure in the office supplies industry. In 2023, the Danish company generated a revenue of nearly five billion Danish kroner, with the highest number being registered in Italy at approximately one billion Danish kroner. Italy also had the highest number of Flying Tiger stores in the world at 131 locations.
Flying Tiger Copenhagen store count by country
Revenue of Flying Tiger Copenhagen in selected countries
Revenue of Steelcase
State of the industry

    Online shops: staples.ca shoppers in Canada
    Office real estate in London (UK)
    Work from home: remote & hybrid work
    Office real estate in the Nordics
    Stationery and office supplies in China

Industry definition

This industry is comprised of establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: retailing new stationery, school supplies, and office supplies; retailing a combination of new office equipment, furniture, and supplies; and retailing new office equipment, furniture, and supplies in combination with selling new computers. Statista offers information about industry leaders and their key financial indicators, industry revenues, number of office supplies stores, and number of employees.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Office Supplies"
Back-to-school market in Canada
Staples
Stationery and office supplies in China
Stationery and office supply market in the United Kingdom (UK)
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

