# Private Label

Private Label

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Private Label

Private Label

Private-label goods are products sold under a retailer’s own brand. They are available for many categories of packaged consumer goods and sold through several retail channels, though most commonly in supermarkets. Globally, the private label segment has the highest market penetration in Europe, followed by North America. Depending on the country, the private label segment makes up between 21 and 52 percent of supermarket sales in Europe.
Considering sales growth rates, private-label consumer goods are performing better than branded products. Consumers have recognized that private label products can offer comparable or superior quality and value compared to the national brands they used to buy, which is why they have made the switch. The recent surge in inflation has also contributed to this trend as consumers have started to reduce their spending on name brands and opt for private label products instead.
Leading region by retail market share of private label worldwide
Europe
Top EU country by sales of private-label fast-moving consumer goods
Germany
Leading private-label food category in the U.S.
Refrigerated meat

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Private label market in the U.S.
Private label food market in the U.S.
Private labels in Japan
Discount grocery stores in the U.S.
Dollar stores in the U.S.
Supermarkets in the U.S.
Private label market in Italy
Private label in Europe
Private label market in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
How much is the private-label market worth?

Private label share of consumer goods sales volume in the U.S. from 2019 to 2025
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Private label share of consumer goods sales volume in the U.S. from 2019 to 2025

In the United States, private label accounts for close to 21 percent of the whole consumer goods market volume and has a value of roughly 236 billion U.S. dollars. In Europe, the size of the store brand market varies significantly between countries. The share of market value held by private labels was highest in Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Private label dollar sales of consumer packaged goods in the U.S.
Market share of private label brands worldwide
Share of e-commerce private label sales in the United States
Market segments
Private label covers the gamut

Unit share of private labels in the United States in 2025, by product department
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Unit share of private labels in the United States in 2025, by product department

Private label goods have made major headway in retail and can be found in a wide variety of categories. In the consumer goods market in the U.S., private label accounts for close to 19 percent of all sale value. Refrigerated was the department with the highest store brands goods dollar share, accounting for one third of sales. In Germany, private label brands held a majority share on trash bags while in Italy their highest share was in the fruit and vegetables segment.
Private label share of consumer goods sales value in the U.S.
Private label share of German consumer goods categories
Private label share of Italian consumer goods categories
Industry trends
Private label thrives in Europe

Private label value share of fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) in Europe from 2023 to 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Private label value share of fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) in Europe from 2023 to 2024

Private label consumer goods have become increasingly popular in Europe due to growing demand for high-quality products at lower prices, the rise of discount retailers, and the increased focus on sustainability and transparency in the supply chain. Private labels have achieved a market share of 36 percent in the region, with a value share of close to 52 percent in Switzerland and more than 44 percent in countries such as the Netherlands, and Spain.
Share of consumer goods' sales value held by private labels in European countries
Change in private labels' share of the grocery retail market in selected European countries
Private label in Europe
Industry leaders
Private label means business

Share of consumer packaged goods (CPG) private label sales in the United States as of March 2025, by retailer
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of consumer packaged goods (CPG) private label sales in the United States as of March 2025, by retailer

In recent years, retailers have shown a growing interest in private label brands, with many stores now selling their own branded products in addition to national brands. Nevertheless, for some retailers like Walmart, private label brands are not just an added bonus, but the primary source of their sales. The U.S. retailer accounted for 28.2 percent of the private label market of consumer packaged goods in the country, followed by Costco with just under 15 percent.
Likelihood to buy supermarket private label products in the UK
Supermarket brands market share in Spain
Regional overview
Latin America lags behind

Private label value share of consumer goods worldwide in Q2 2024, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Private label value share of consumer goods worldwide in Q2 2024, by region

Latin American has a notably low share of private label sales among fast-moving consumer goods. Only 2.3 percent of sales in the region came from store brands compared to 36 percent in West Europe. One possible explanation for this is the fact that many grocery chains are regional and don't command the brand presence of national chains in markets elsewhere in the world.
Fastest-growing private label markets worldwide
Private labels in Japan
State of the industry

    Private label in Europe
    Private labels in Japan
    Private label in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Private label market in Canada
    Private label market in Italy

Industry definition

This category covers the market of consumer goods sold under the own brands of retailers. The products are usually supplied by third-party manufacturers, which have a portfolio of different customers: national brands, retailers, or even service providers. Statistical information about the private label market is most often provided in relation to the whole in-store retail market. Similarly, spending intentions reported by consumers are usually described as a choice of private label brands over all other brands available in the market. Dollar and unit sales of specific categories of products provide further insights, especially in the grocery sector.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Private Label"
Private label food market in the U.S.
Private label in Europe
Private label market in Canada
Private label market in Italy
Private label market in the U.S.
Private label market in the UK
Private labels in India
Private labels in Japan
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

