# Retail Technology

Retail Technology

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Retail Technology

Retail Technology

The rapid advances in digital and automation technologies have led to new developments in a number of industries, the retail industry being one of them. From check-out to inventory management, fulfillment to in-store facilities, retail technology includes the implementation of innovations and digital solutions in retail and e-commerce processes. The use of retail technology plays a fundamental role in customer experience. Today, both brick-and-mortar and online businesses invest in many aspects of retail technology. In-store retail tech tools include the use of technologies powered by Artificial Intelligence, such as smart mirrors and self-checkouts. For e-commerce businesses, retail technologies enable efficient inventory management with the help of cloud software, help manage customer bases and maintain a frictionless retail experience across multiple platforms through CRM tools.
Size of the global retail automation market in 2021
12.2b U.S. dollars
Value of funding received by in-store retail technology companies worldwide in 2021
10.5b U.S. dollars
Share of U.S. consumers who will have used AR devices when buying products online by 2025
28%

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Augmented reality (AR)
Virtual reality (VR)
E-commerce worldwide
Livestream commerce
Metaverse
Fashion in the metaverse
Artificial intelligence (AI) in e-commerce
Artificial intelligence (AI) in U.S. e-commerce
Cloud automation & AI
Warehouse automation market worldwide
Retail technology worldwide
AI in logistics
Artificial intelligence (AI) in U.S. e-commerce
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Potential for investment growth

Quarterly value of retail technology financing deals worldwide from 1st quarter 2019 to 4th quarter 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Quarterly value of retail technology financing deals worldwide from 1st quarter 2019 to 4th quarter 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Retail technology is key for brick-and-mortar companies, B2B and B2C e-commerce businesses, online marketplaces, and e-services like meal kit and food delivery. In recent years, financial funding into these segments has grown substantially, encouraging businesses towards the digital transformation of their organizations. In the last quarter of 2023, investments and funding of 4.7 billion U.S. dollars went into retail tech deals across all sectors.
Value of IT spending by segment
Share of AI spending on retail industry
Number of funded e-commerce and retail tech startups in Africa
Market segments
Behind the scenes of retail tech

Physical store self-checkout motivations for consumers in mainland China and Hong Kong in 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Physical store self-checkout motivations for consumers in mainland China and Hong Kong in 2023

Retail technology aids both brick-and-mortar and e-commerce companies in several steps of their business processes. Supply chain and logistics are areas in which both online and conventional retail companies benefit from digital solutions. For e-commerce and multichannel businesses, retail technologies such as payments and personalization attract more investment and interest. On the store front, retail technology plays a big part in transforming today's retail stores into experiential spaces.
Grocery store self-checkout usage preferences
Number of warehouse automation companies
Consumer interest in robotic delivery in Japan
Industry trends
Next stage in tech use in retail

Leading technologies prioritized by retailers in the United States in 2023
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading technologies prioritized by retailers in the United States in 2023

Gen AI has taken all industries by storm and retail is one of the leading sectors where the application of advanced AI applications can bring many benefits. Among the areas where retail executives are looking to deploy AI are personalization, supply chain management, and security.
Retail tech investment plans
Corporate spending in AI
Gen AI usage by industry
State of the industry

    Live commerce
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in e-commerce
    Retail technology worldwide
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in business
    Digital transformation

Industry definition

Retail technology refers to the digital tools and innovations utilized by brick-and-mortar retailers and e-commerce platforms in their in-store and supply chain operations. It sits at the heart of the digital transformation of retail businesses. Retail technology tools are often powered by automation, the Internet of Things (IoT), and Artificial Intelligence (AI). Data on retail technology provided by Statista cover the usage of retail technology in both physical and online retail, monitoring the current and planned investment and roll-out of retail technologies in the larger retail and e-commerce sectors.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Retail Technology"
AI-driven retail in China
Artificial intelligence (AI) in e-commerce in France
Artificial intelligence (AI) in U.S. e-commerce
BigCommerce
E-commerce platform technologies
E-commerce startups
E-commerce worldwide
Fashion in the metaverse
Retail technology worldwide
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

