# Sports & Leisure

Sports & Leisure

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Sports & Leisure

Sports & Leisure

Leisure and sporting activities are gaining an increasingly prominent position in the social landscape and are recognized as an important lifestyle choice. Worldwide, employees needing to unwind outside of work are trying out an ever-growing range of hobbies, while more importance is being placed on adult, as well as child participation in physical and leisurely activities.

There are various store types consumers can visit, should they wish to partake in some of these activities. Hobby stores sell recreational items to consumers, such as collectibles, instruments, and video games, while sporting goods stores provide shoppers with sporting and fitness equipment, as well as apparel for exercise purposes. Lastly, pet stores provide consumers with everything they need to take care of the animals they love and live with.
Hobby, toy, and game store sales in the United States
21.9bn USD
Leading online pet supplies store in the UK, by e-commerce net sales
petsathome.com
Wholesale sales of the U.S. sports product industry
121.7bn USD

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Hobby store market
    Pet store market
    Sporting goods market
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Sporting goods industry in the U.S.
Pet stores in the U.S.
Online pet care market in the United States
Sports brands
Fitness equipment in the U.S.
Sporting goods in Germany
Nike
adidas
Pet food in France
Outdoor recreation & sporting goods in the U.S.
Bicycle market in Germany
Sporting goods in the United States
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
The sports & leisure retail market

Revenue in the toys, hobby & DIY e-commerce market in the United States from 2017 to 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue in the toys, hobby & DIY e-commerce market in the United States from 2017 to 2029 (in billion U.S. dollars)

The competitive landscape is always evolving. Demand is driven by population demographics and income, while the profitability of individual companies depends on merchandising and marketing skills. Large chains, such as Nike and Adidas, have an advantage in stocking a wide variety of goods. Smaller companies and specialty retailers, on the other hand, can compete successfully by carrying a deeper product line in specialized sports, offering repair services, or by serving a local market.
Sporting goods, hobby and musical instrument store sales in the U.S.
Sporting goods, hobby, book, and music per capita spending in the U.S.
Projected pet store sales in the U.S.
Hobby store market
Hobby stores worldwide

Monthly retail sales of hobby, toy, and game stores in the United States from January 2017 to November 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Monthly retail sales of hobby, toy, and game stores in the United States from January 2017 to November 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)

A hobby is defined as enjoying partaking in a specific type of recreational activity. The term “hobby store” encompasses many specific store types, including shops for musical instruments, fishing, model airplanes & collector’s items, toys & games, as well as merchandise, and many other product categories. In essence, a hobby store sells goods and services that speak to the recreational needs and wants of hobbyists. A large variety of hobby stores are based in North America.
Hobby stores in the U.S.
Number of hobby, toy and game stores in Canada by region
Net sales of GameStop stores worldwide
Pet store market
Pet supplies and specialty stores

Leading pet supply online shops ranked by brand awareness in the United States as of June 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading pet supply online shops ranked by brand awareness in the United States as of June 2024

Worldwide, there are many people who love and own pets. In the United States alone, just under half of all households owned a dog, making it a large market for pet stores and enterprises. The U.S. pet store market is, however, dominated by a few main forces: PetSmart, Petco Animal Supplies, and Chewy. While pet products are frequently still purchased in physical outlets, the growth of the online pet retail market is becoming increasingly relevant with each passing year.
Pet food market in Canada
Pet ownership and petcare market in Europe
PetSmart brand profile in the U.S.
Sporting goods market
Global sporting goods & equipment stores

Net sales of Dick's Sporting Goods in the United States from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Net sales of Dick's Sporting Goods in the United States from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

With high numbers of people sitting for long hours in offices, the emphasis on an active and healthy lifestyle remains crucial and is growing. Companies within this industry operate physical retail stores specializing in sporting goods, athletic and fitness wear, fitness equipment, and related products. Major companies worldwide include Nike, lululemon, Big 5, Cabela's, Dick's Sporting Goods, Hibbett Sports, REI, Sports Authority, FGL Sports, Groupe Go Sport, and countless others.
Puma
Institutional fitness equipment wholesale sales in the U.S.
Number of lululemon athletica stores worldwide, by country
State of the industry

Industry definition

The sports & leisure category provides interesting data on the retail side of sporting and recreational activities, i.e., products and services, from across the globe. The industry is divided into three sub-categories: hobby stores, pet stores, and sporting goods.

The hobby store section focuses on various goods and outlets for hobbyists, for instance sewing, book, camping, and musical instrument stores. The pet store sub-category includes data on pet animal specialty and supply stores, leading brands, and so on. Last but not least, the sporting goods section provides data on sports and fitness equipment companies, specialized stores, and various markets' sales figures.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Sports & Leisure"
Activewear in the U.S.
Card game and puzzle market worldwide
Gardening in France
JD Sports Fashion Plc
Puma
Toy industry in China
More interesting topics from the industry "Sports & Leisure"
Hobby Stores

    Bandai Namco
    GameStop
    Hobby stores in the U.S.
    LEGO
    Playmobil
    Toy and games market in Russia
    Toy market in Japan

Pet Stores

    Online pet care market in the United States
    Pet food in France
    Pet food in Spain
    Pet industry in China
    Pet industry in Japan
    Pet industry in Thailand
    Pet market in Poland
    Pet stores in the U.S.
    Pet supplies market in Germany
    PetSmart

Sporting Goods

    adidas
    Bicycle market in Germany
    Fitness equipment in the U.S.
    Foot Locker
    Home fitness
    lululemon athletica
    Nike
    On Holding AG
    Outdoor recreation & sporting goods in the U.S.
    Peloton
    Sporting goods in Canada
    Sporting goods in Germany
    Sporting goods in the UK
    Sporting goods industry in Spain
    Sporting goods industry in the U.S.
    Sporting goods market in Japan
    Sporting goods retail in India
    Sports and fitness equipment in Europe
    Under Armour

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

