# Wholesale

Wholesale

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Retail & Trade
    ›Wholesale

Wholesale

The global wholesaling market refers to the management and transfer of goods in the distribution chain from manufacturer to retailer. Wholesale distributors either sell or orchestrate the sale or purchase of goods between wholesalers or the sale of goods from wholesalers to retailers, and non-consumer goods in the form of materials used in production. Other industry actors include logistics, warehousing and transportation organizations.
Total goods sales of U.S. merchant wholesalers
9.7 trillion USD
Annual turnover of the EU wholesale and retail trade industry
10.4 trillion USD
Sales of wholesale trade in Canada
864 billion CAD

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Costco
Wholesale trade in Japan
Retail trade in Europe
Third-party logistics (3PL) industry worldwide
Car manufacturers in the United States
Trade in the U.S.
Online wholesalers
Costco Wholesale Corporation
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
How big is wholesale trade?

Wholesalers monthly sales in the United States from January 2017 to December 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Wholesalers monthly sales in the United States from January 2017 to December 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Aside from the type of merchant, the wholesale retail market can be differentiated into two big groups of commodities: durable and non-durable goods. While both categories showed increasing gross margins for U.S. merchant wholesalers, non-durable goods usually ensure lower gross margins than durable goods. Similar to other sectors, wholesale trade is slowly recovering from a dramatic decline due to the pandemic.
U.S. wholesalers year over year monthly sales growth
Share of gross margin of U.S. durable goods' wholesale sales
Share of gross margin of U.S. non-durable goods' wholesale sales
Industry leaders
The biggest suppliers

Most valuable retail brands worldwide in 2025, by brand value (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most valuable retail brands worldwide in 2025, by brand value (in million U.S. dollars)

The U.S. wholesaler Costco is one the world's leading companies based on brand value, surpassing the retail giants like Amazon and Walmart. The company has retail presence outside of the United States too, with warehouses operating in Canada, Mexico, Japan, the UK and South Korea.
Costco average sales per warehouse
Sales of warehouse clubs in the U.S.
Number of Costco warehouses
State of the industry

    Retail market worldwide
    Logistics industry in China
    E-commerce logistics

Industry definition

In this category, Statista offers data describing the contribution of the wholesale sector to national economies, the sales revenue of wholesale trade regarding several commodities and countries, and the latest annual change trends. Additional data provide an extensive mapping of companies and merchants operating in the field.
Information also includes data on merchant wholesalers. As the leading type of wholesale firm, merchant wholesalers constitute the main distribution channel for most goods, except for motor vehicles and parts. Merchant wholesalers, who take ownership of products prior to distribution, are divided into several subcategories, including importers and exporters, co-operative buying associations, industrial distributors, and farm product marketing cooperatives. Other merchant wholesaler types include voluntary group wholesalers, assemblers, industrial distributors, terminal elevators, retailer cooperative warehouses, cash-and-carry wholesalers, and drop shippers.
Retail & Trade

    DIY Retail
    Fashion & Accessories
    Food & Beverage
    Furniture Retail
    General Merchandise
    Health & Hygiene
    International Trade
    Office Supplies
    Private Label
    Retail Technology
    Shopping Behavior
    Sports & Leisure
    Subscriptions & Direct Selling
    Supply Chain
    Wholesale

More interesting topics from the industry "Wholesale"
Alibaba's cross-border markets
Flower market in the Netherlands
Wholesale trade in Germany
Wholesale trade in Japan
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

