# Rolling Stock Manufacturing

Rolling Stock Manufacturing

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Metals & Electronics
    ›Rolling Stock Manufacturing

Rolling Stock Manufacturing

The rolling stock manufacturing industry caters to a large variety of rail markets and directly supports the increasing volume and frequency of the transportation of goods and passengers by rail. The demand for rolling stock is growing due to factors such as, globalization, and an expanding global rail network. In addition, as the tendency to travel and ship cargo in an eco-friendlier manner is on the rise, rail transport could become increasingly popular among consumers in the future.

Since 2020, the rolling stock manufacturing industry, like the overall logistics market, has faced disruption due to the COVID-19 pandemic, followed by supply chain shortages and geopolitical disruptions. Evolving consumer behavior and the ease of access to last-mile logistics have widened the space for new logistics solutions.
World's largest manufacturer of rolling stock
CRRC
Size of the global rolling stock market
55 billion U.S. dollars
Length of China's high-speed rail network
43,700 kilometers

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Rolling Stock Market
    Industry trends
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Rail industry worldwide
Public transportation
Transport infrastructure in China
Road and rail infrastructure in India
High-speed rail in China
High-speed rail worldwide
Rail freight industry worldwide
Rail freight industry in Europe
Rail freight industry in North America
Transportation: Rail in the U.S. 2022 - Industry Insights & Data Analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Rolling Stock Market
How big is the rolling stock market?

Compound annual growth rate of the global rolling stock market between 2018 and 2022, by region
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Compound annual growth rate of the global rolling stock market between 2018 and 2022, by region

The global rolling stock industry was worth over 55 billion U.S. dollars 2023 and is expected to continue to grow. Currently, China is the largest market for rolling stock manufacturing, and Latin America was projected to be the fastest-growing market in 2023.
Global rolling stock market value
Global rolling stock worldwide
Global rail supply market growth rate
Industry trends
New high-speed trains for new high-speed tracks

Length of the high-speed railway lines in operation worldwide in 2022, by country (in kilometers)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Length of the high-speed railway lines in operation worldwide in 2022, by country (in kilometers)

The global high-speed rail network has grown substantially in the last years, largely driven by China's expansion of its network, but other countries including Spain and Japan have also expanded their networks. This is driving demand for new high-speed rolling stock. The market leader in this segment are currently Alstom and Japanese Consortia, which together delivered more than half of all high-speed rail units between 2021 and 2023.
Leading high-speed rolling stock manufacturers
Fastest trains worldwide
High-speed rail worldwide
Industry Definition

The rolling stock manufacturing category provides information on rail infrastructure and equipment production, including railcars, locomotives, and wagons. Information on the electrification of railroads and technologies that aim to improve railroad efficiency and safety is also available. Within this sector, Statista provides information about the business activities of the major manufacturers and suppliers and data on a global, regional, and national scale.
Metals & Electronics

    Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing
    Electronics
    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
    Metals
    Rolling Stock Manufacturing
    Shipbuilding
    Vehicle Manufacturing

More interesting topics from the industry "Rolling Stock Manufacturing"
Alstom
Railway industry in Japan
Rolling stock industry worldwide
Shinkansen high-speed railway in Japan
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

