# Shipbuilding

Shipbuilding


Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Metals & Electronics
    ›Shipbuilding

Shipbuilding

Shipbuilding is a cyclical and capital-intensive business. China, South Korea, and Japan are the leading shipbuilding nations. The main products include bulk cargo ships, tankers, container ships, and cruise ships. In terms of gross tonnage, tankers are the largest category. Following the rise of container freight rates in 2021, shipowners have ordered new container vessels. These ships are scheduled for delivery in the following years and will add a substantial capacity to the existing world container fleet. Tighter environmental regulations came into effect at the start of 2020 and sparked demand for technologies that curb emissions from ship exhaust. Shipbreaking is following a similar trend; the international community has been introducing new standards to protect the environment and shipyard workers and reduce the negative effects on the ship recycling industry.
Size of the shipbuilding market worldwide
175 billion U.S. dollars
Leading type of vessels based on deliveries worldwide
Bulk carriers
Leading shipbuilding nation worldwide
China

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Container shipping
Shipbuilding industry in South Korea
Shipbuilding industry worldwide
Philly Shipyard
Shipbuilding industry in Japan
Cruise industry worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
State of the industry

    Shipbuilding and maritime activities in Turkey
    Shipbuilding industry in South Korea
    Philly Shipyard
    Shipbuilding industry in Japan

Industry Definition

The shipbuilding section provides information on the manufacture of commercial vessels, including tankers, bulk cargo ships, container ships, cruise ships, and large yachts. Within this section, Statista provides information about the business activities of shipyards and other shipbuilding facilities. Data on a global, regional, and country scale is available. In addition to this, information is available on shipbreaking, Also available is information on the use of scrubbers to mitigate environmental pollution.
Metals & Electronics

    Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing
    Electronics
    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
    Metals
    Rolling Stock Manufacturing
    Shipbuilding
    Vehicle Manufacturing

More interesting topics from the industry "Shipbuilding"
Cruise shipbuilding industry worldwide
Shipbuilding industry in China
Shipbuilding industry in Japan
Shipbuilding industry in South Korea
Shipbuilding industry worldwide
Water transportation in India
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

