# Vehicle Manufacturing

Vehicle Manufacturing

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Metals & Electronics
    ›Vehicle Manufacturing

Vehicle Manufacturing

In 2023, approximately 94 million motor vehicles were produced worldwide. While this production volume was some three million off the production peak recorded in 2018, this marked the third consecutive year of growth for the automotive manufacturing market. While this market expansion is a sign that vehicle demand and business conditions are improving, the industry still faces various external challenges that impact manufacturers’ profits.

Vehicle manufacturing is also undergoing structural changes, offering challenges and opportunities alike. A shift towards electrification and automation mainly drives this change, while the sector has started to invest in Artificial Intelligence and other innovations. Though production volumes are on the rise, auto suppliers’ profit margins are still lower than automakers’ margins, despite the latter being impacted by market fluctuations.
Leading vehicle manufacturing country
China
Leading segment for motor vehicle production
Passenger cars
Leading companies for EBIT margins
Original Equipment Manufacturers

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry Insights
Motor vehicle production
Automotive manufacturing industry in China
Automotive suppliers worldwide
Auto suppliers in South Korea
Automotive industry worldwide
Electric vehicles worldwide
Bosch
Denso
Autonomous vehicles worldwide
Motor vehicle production worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Industry growth has a diverse impact on its subsectors

Value added of the global automotive product manufacturing between 2018 and 2023, with a forecast through 2029 (in trillion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Value added of the global automotive product manufacturing between 2018 and 2023, with a forecast through 2029 (in trillion U.S. dollars)

The automotive product manufacturing industry generated a total value added around 0.9 trillion U.S. dollars worldwide in 2023.

Motor vehicle and trailer manufacturing is the backbone of this industry, representing nearly 81 percent of this value added. Auto suppliers, fundamental to the production of road vehicles, had a mitigated financial performance, with their profit margin below automakers for the third consecutive year.
Motor vehicle production worldwide
Automotive suppliers worldwide
Automotive products: forecast output from global manufacturing
Market segments
Passenger cars maintain their stronghold on vehicle production

Estimated worldwide motor vehicle production between 2019 and 2024, by type (in 1,000 units)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Estimated worldwide motor vehicle production between 2019 and 2024, by type (in 1,000 units)

Passenger cars are by far the biggest segment within the vehicle manufacturing industry. In 2023, over three times as many cars as light commercial vehicles were manufactured worldwide. This larger production volume interacts with the passenger car demand, which caters to consumers' motorization needs.

Production and demand are shifting towards more environmentally-friendly options, leading to increased electric vehicle manufacturing.
Production of passenger cars worldwide
Commercial vehicles worldwide
Automobile manufacturing industry in China
Industry trends
Market innovation is linked to new technologies

Largest patent owners in autonomous driving worldwide from 2013 to 2022, by number of active patent families
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Largest patent owners in autonomous driving worldwide from 2013 to 2022, by number of active patent families

Autonomous driving was one of the main trends in the industry, with patents from some of the largest automakers in this area steadily increasing through 2022. Electric vehicles were also a popular investment avenue for manufacturers, with battery making startups attracting most venture capital investments in battery technology.

More recently, automakers have been funding Artificial Intelligence projects, which has the potential to improve safety and enhance the driver experience.
Global venture capital investments in battery technology by stage and technology
Venture capital investments in e-mobility start-ups by stage and technology
Industry 4.0: in-depth market analysis
Industry leaders
Asia and Europe are hubs for the industry leaders

The leading global automotive suppliers in 2024, based on revenue (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic The leading global automotive suppliers in 2024, based on revenue (in billion U.S. dollars)

Bosch, headquartered in Germany, was the leading automotive supplier worldwide in 2023. Three of the five main auto suppliers were from Germany, with the other two located in the Asia-Pacific region. This prevalence of Asia and Europe was also present among automakers, with the Toyota Motor Corporation and Volkswagen Group topping the best-seller rankings in 2023.
Bosch
Denso
Toyota Motor Corporation
State of the industry

Industry definition

The vehicle manufacturing industry comprises the production of passenger cars, commercial light vehicles, trucks, and two-wheelers. Within this sector, Statista provides information about the various technologies driving the market forward and the business activities of suppliers and original equipment manufacturers. Further data insights on vehicle components and accessories and an analysis of the automotive aftermarket are available. Statista focuses its research on the global, regional, and national levels while also providing up-to-date information on industry trends as well as supplier and manufacturer rankings.
Metals & Electronics

    Aerospace & Defense Manufacturing
    Electronics
    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
    Metals
    Rolling Stock Manufacturing
    Shipbuilding
    Vehicle Manufacturing

More interesting topics from the industry "Vehicle Manufacturing"
Aptiv PLC
Auto suppliers in Japan
Auto suppliers in South Korea
Automobile Dacia
Automobile industry in Japan
Automotive components industry in India
Automotive industry in Argentina
Automotive industry in Brazil
Automotive industry in Colombia
More interesting topics from the industry "Vehicle Manufacturing"
Commercial Vehicles

    Bus market in South Korea
    Commercial vehicle market in Japan
    Commercial vehicles in China
    Commercial vehicles in India
    Commercial vehicles in South Korea
    Eicher Motors

Motorcycles & Bicycles

    Bicycle industry in Japan
    Motorcycle industry in Germany
    Motorcycle industry in Indonesia
    Motorcycle industry in Japan
    Motorcycle industry in Thailand
    Motorcycle market in Italy
    Motorcycle market in the Netherlands
    Motorcycle market in Vietnam

Passenger Cars

    Car market in Italy
    Electric vehicle market in Indonesia
    Electric vehicle market in Singapore
    Electric vehicle market in Thailand
    EV market in Malaysia
    Light commercial vehicle market in Europe
    Maruti Suzuki
    Passenger car market in Europe
    Passenger car market in Japan
    Passenger vehicles in China
    Passenger vehicles in India
    Škoda Auto
    Subaru Corporation

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

