# Advertising
(بانتظار المحتوى...)
Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Advertising & Marketing
    ›Advertising

Advertising

The advertising industry is highly dependent on the media for ad placement and the creatives for material production. Consumer use of media plays a role in determining the extent of advertising expenditures – in countries where the print is being substituted by all things digital, newspaper advertising spending will suffer while the internet will command a larger share of investments.
However, the generally observed trend is that internet ad spend has already overtaken other media, leaving even TV advertising behind. According to market projections, internet will continue to command larger shares of investments, a trend which was consolidated by changes in consumer behavior after the coronavirus pandemic.
Leading medium based on ad spend share worldwide
Internet
Share of TV in global ad spend
26%
Region with the highest ad spend on internet
North America

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Advertising worldwide
TV advertising worldwide
Advertising consumption and perception in the U.S.
Digital video advertising and marketing worldwide
Advertising agencies in the U.S.
Programmatic advertising worldwide
Outdoor advertising worldwide
Advertising in Europe
Advertising and marketing in Africa
Advertising in the Asia-Pacific region
Advertising in Latin America
Digital retail media advertising worldwide
Digital advertising worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Which global region will see the highest growth in advertising spending?

Change in advertising spending worldwide from 2020 to 2028
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Change in advertising spending worldwide from 2020 to 2028

Advertising often varies by market maturity which directly affects the growth rates – developing markets will experience larger ad spend growth than those which are already saturated. North America is an example of a mature market, with ad investment growth projected at around five percent by 2023. On the other hand, the LATAM and MENA regions show the highest potential to develop in the coming years, at an impressive rate of roughly nine percent.
Advertising market worldwide
Advertising industry in North America
Advertising industry in Latin America
Market segments
Digital is king!

Digital advertising spending worldwide from 2018 to 2030, by format (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Digital advertising spending worldwide from 2018 to 2030, by format (in billion U.S. dollars)

Globally, digital advertising accounts for more than half of ad expenditures and is on a steady path toward future growth. The pandemic dip at the beginning of the decade is on its way to becoming a long-gone memory - with search, social media, and video now enjoying their status as dominant formats and symbolizing the future of advertising, leaving traditional methods behind. ​
Online advertising metrics
Digital advertising in North America
Digital advertising in Europe
Industry trends
Retail media - a new wave upon us​

Digital retail media advertising spending worldwide from 2018 to 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Digital retail media advertising spending worldwide from 2018 to 2028 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Digital retail media has become the hottest new kid on the block and will increasingly attract more ad dollars. This type of promotion refers to advertisements placed on retail websites, apps, or marketplaces - reaching consumers at the exact moment they are interested in buying a product. Therefore, amid the rapid rise of e-commerce, the current economic uncertainty, and the disappearance of third-party cookies, retail media has been growing into an essential tool for brands.
Digital retail media advertising worldwide
Digital retail media advertising in the U.S.
Amazon advertising in the U.S.
Industry leaders
An advertising agency giant​

WPP's billings worldwide from 2010 to 2024 (in billion GBP)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic WPP's billings worldwide from 2010 to 2024 (in billion GBP)

WPP, headquartered in London, has been on the advertising industry stage since 1971. The company became one of the 'top dogs' among global ad agencies based on revenue alone, and generated around 50 billion British pounds (approximately 57 billion U.S. dollars) in annual billings since 2016. WPP also boasts an impressive market cap of roughly 17.5 billion U.S. dollars.
Advertising agencies
"Big Five" ad agencies worldwide
WPP company report
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Advertising data on Statista’s platform consists of figures on advertising spending, revenues, and advertising effectiveness. Spending statistics include overall ad spending, as well as data split by media type. Information on ad campaign reach (local and national) and ad revenue figures for online and offline media are also available. In addition, this section provides survey data on advertising perception and consumption, along with consumer responses to promotional activities of brands and companies.
Advertising & Marketing

    Advertising
    Brands & Leaders
    Marketing

More interesting topics from the industry "Advertising"
2020 Presidential Election and the Media
Advertising agencies in the U.S.
Advertising and marketing in Africa
Advertising and marketing in Central America
Advertising and marketing in Ecuador
Advertising and marketing in Uruguay
Advertising in Argentina
Advertising in Australia
Advertising in Austria
More interesting topics from the industry "Advertising"
Online Advertising

    Ad blocking in the U.S.
    Ad fraud
    Ad-supported video-on-demand in the United States
    Advertising and market research companies in Italy
    Advertising consumption and perception in the U.S.
    Advertising in CEE
    Advertising in Eastern Europe & Central Asia
    Advertising in Germany
    Advertising in Russia
    Advertising in the Asia-Pacific region
    Advertising in the Baltics
    Advertising in Turkey
    Alphabet Inc.
    Amazon advertising in the U.S.
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in programmatic advertising
    ASO - App Store Optimization
    Audio advertising in the U.S.
    Beauty and personal care e-commerce in the United States
    Beauty and personal care e-commerce worldwide
    Beauty shopping on social media
    Bing
    Brand boycotting worldwide
    Christmas advertising in the UK
    Connected TV viewership in the United States
    craigslist
    CTV advertising in the U.S.
    CTV advertising worldwide
    Data privacy in digital advertising in Europe
    Data privacy in digital advertising in the United States
    Data usage in marketing and advertising
    Digital advertising formats in the U.S.
    Digital advertising formats in the UK
    Digital advertising in Australia
    Digital advertising in Brazil
    Digital advertising in Canada
    Digital advertising in CEE
    Digital advertising in Europe
    Digital advertising in France
    Digital advertising in Germany
    Digital advertising in India
    Digital advertising in Italy
    Digital advertising in Japan
    Digital advertising in Latin America
    Digital advertising in North America
    Digital advertising in Poland
    Digital advertising in Russia
    Digital advertising in Spain
    Digital advertising in Sweden
    Digital advertising in the Asia-Pacific region
    Digital advertising in the Netherlands
    Digital advertising in the Nordics
    Digital advertising in the U.S.
    Digital advertising in the UK
    Digital advertising in Vietnam
    Digital advertising in Western Europe
    Digital advertising worldwide
    Digital marketing in Italy
    Digital out-of-home (DOOH) advertising in the U.S.
    Digital out-of-home advertising in Germany
    Digital out-of-home advertising worldwide
    Digital retail media advertising in Brazil
    Digital retail media advertising in Europe
    Digital retail media advertising in Latin America
    Digital retail media advertising in the UK
    Digital retail media advertising in the United States
    Digital retail media advertising worldwide
    Digitalization of the meetings industry
    Disney Advertising
    Display advertising in the U.S.
    E-commerce advertising and marketing
    E-mail usage in the United States
    Free ad-supported streaming TV advertising in the United States
    Generative AI and ad agencies worldwide
    Generative AI in marketing
    Google
    Google consumer tech devices
    Google in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Holiday season advertising in the U.S.
    In-app advertising
    In-game advertising in the U.S.
    Influencer marketing in France
    Influencer marketing in Indonesia
    Influencer marketing in Italy
    Influencer marketing in Japan
    Influencer marketing in Spain
    Influencer/KOL marketing in China
    Instacart Ads
    Instagram in Spain
    Live commerce in Asia
    Livestream commerce
    Metaverse advertising & marketing in the U.S.
    Mobile advertising and marketing in Europe
    Mobile advertising and marketing in the U.S.
    Mobile advertising and marketing worldwide
    Mobile advertising in Germany
    Online advertising metrics
    Online radio in the UK
    Online video advertising and marketing in Asia
    Online video advertising in Japan
    Perception of gen AI use in advertising in the U.S.
    Pinterest
    Podcast advertising in the U.S.
    Programmatic advertising in Europe
    Programmatic advertising in the UK
    Programmatic advertising in the United States
    Programmatic advertising worldwide
    Programmatic digital out-of-home (prDOOH) advertising
    Search advertising in the U.S.
    Social commerce
    Social commerce in Europe
    Social commerce in Latin America
    Social commerce in the Nordics
    Social commerce in the United States
    Social media advertising and marketing in Belgium
    Social media advertising and marketing in Europe
    Social media advertising and marketing in France
    Social media advertising and marketing in the Netherlands
    Social media advertising in India
    Social media advertising in South Korea
    Social media in Israel
    Social media marketing in China
    Streaming services advertising in the United States
    Synthetic advertising
    Third-party cookie deprecation
    TikTok advertising & marketing in the U.S.
    Twitter in Spain
    Unlimitail
    Utiq
    Virtual influencers
    Walled gardens
    Walmart Connect
    WhatsApp marketing in Brazil
    X (formerly Twitter)

Traditional advertising

    Advertising in CEE
    Advertising in Eastern Europe & Central Asia
    Advertising in the Baltics
    Audio advertising in the U.S.
    Christmas advertising in the UK
    Direct mail advertising and marketing in the U.S.
    Holiday season advertising in the U.S.
    OOH advertising in China
    Radio advertising in Germany
    TV advertising in France
    TV advertising in South Korea

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

