# Medical Technology

Medical Technology

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Health, Pharma & Medtech
    ›Medical Technology

Medical Technology

The medical technology industry is a renowned part of the overall healthcare sector. In an online and interconnected world, health information technology (HIT) is an increasingly important part of the medtech branch. HIT involves the sharing and analysis of health data through electronic health records which should enable more coordinated and accurate care, although privacy concerns remain among some patients.

The overall industry has an annual size of over 611 billion U.S. dollars and will continue to grow over the next years. The largest segments within the industry, by revenue, are in vitro diagnostics (IVD), cardiology, medical imaging, and orthopedics. The area of digital health and telemedicine should continue its rise in use and importance, after seeing a huge increase in use and interest in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These solutions have been marketed as a route to more efficient experiences for both the patient and the healthcare provider.
Leading medical technology company
Abbott
Medical devices global market value
611 billion U.S. dollars
AI in healthcare market size worldwide
20.7 billion U.S. dollars

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segment
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Medical technology
mHealth
Digital health
Medical technology in China
Telemedicine
XR in healthcare
3D printing in healthcare
In vitro diagnostics
Medical technology industry
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Revenues continue to grow in medtech

Total global medical technology growth per year from 2010 to 2022
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Total global medical technology growth per year from 2010 to 2022

Global medical devices’s revenue stood at approximately 611 billion euros in 2023. An increase of around 70 billion dollars since 2021 and the market was forecast to increase to around 773 billion euros by 2027. Research and development plays a significant role in the progress of medtech as companies continually pursue the most cutting-edge technologies in healthcare. For example, Abbot Laboratories spend over 2.7 billion U.S. dollars on R&D in 2023 alone.
Regional distribution of the global medtech industry
Medical technology industry
Abbott' spend on R&D
Market segment
IVD the leading segment in medtech

Distribution of the global revenue of medical technology industry in 2021, by category
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Distribution of the global revenue of medical technology industry in 2021, by category

In vitro diagnostics (IVD) was the leading segment of medical technology globally, making up almost a fifth of the total market. In vitro refers to any tests that diagnose and detect diseases, infections, and other conditions. IVD can range from very simple devices that a person could use in their own homes to very complex instruments used in a laboratory. The IVD market was forecast to increase to over 188 billion U.S. dollars by 2030.
In vitro diagnostics
IVD market size worldwide
IVD market in the U.S.
Industry trends
Digital health

Annual number of users of online doctor consultations worldwide from 2017 to 2029 (in million users)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Annual number of users of online doctor consultations worldwide from 2017 to 2029 (in million users)

Digital health has become a more prominent presence in recent years, and the segment was forecast to continue growing. The digital health market was worth over 170 billion U.S. dollars in 2024. Telemedicine has been particularly important since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, with patients hesitant to travel for non-urgent appointments. Other factors encouraging growth include higher traditional healthcare costs, high acceptance rates, and increased investment in new technologies.
Digital health
Potential time savings with telemedicine
Top funded digital health technologies
Industry leaders
Abbott Laboratories the current frontrunner

Leading medical technology companies worldwide based on revenue in 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading medical technology companies worldwide based on revenue in 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

In 2022, Abbott Laboratories was the leading medical technology company in the world, with a revenue of around 31.3 billion U.S. dollars. Abbott is a U.S. company currently headquartered in Chicago, with a focus on diagnostics, cardiovascular, and diabetes care. Medtronic was the second largest medtech company in the world, with a revenue of 31.2 billion U.S. dollars.
Abbott
Abbott's global revenue
Number of employees at Abbott
Regional overview
The U.S. the biggest market for now

U.S. metro areas most active in digital health based on invested funding in 2022 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic U.S. metro areas most active in digital health based on invested funding in 2022 (in million U.S. dollars)

The U.S. and Western Europe are the most established hubs of the medtech industry, generating the largest share of the global revenue. Consequently, most of the top medtech companies come from these two regions. Asia, and particularly China, are expected to become more prominent within the global industry in the future. In the past 10 years, the medtech industry China has increased very significantly in value.
Medtech companies in the U.S. and Europe
Value of medtech exports from China
Medical technology industry in China
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The medical technology category offers data on the products and services used in the healthcare sector. Encompassed within this division are assistive devices, digital health, implantable devices, and overall medical equipment that functions to prevent, diagnose, or treat diseases and illnesses. Among the most prominent medical technology products are, but not limited to, pacemakers, imaging instruments, dialysis machines and implants. Medtech is a multi-billion dollar industry for the companies involved in the industry, with operations taking place on a global scale.
Health, Pharma & Medtech

    Care & Support
    Health Professionals & Hospitals
    Health System
    Medical Technology
    Pharmaceutical Products & Market
    State of Health

More interesting topics from the industry "Medical Technology"
3D printing in healthcare
3M
Abbott Laboratories
AI in healthcare
Cancer in Latin America
Cosmetic procedures in Brazil
Diagnostic technology
Diagnostics market in India
Digital health
More interesting topics from the industry "Medical Technology"
Digital health

    Digital health in Australia
    Digital health in Canada
    Digital health in China
    Digital health in Indonesia
    Digital health in mental healthcare
    Digital healthcare in Saudi Arabia
    Digital healthcare market trends
    Gen Z and healthcare in the U.S.
    Health and fitness apps
    Health system in Nigeria
    Healthcare in Egypt
    Internet of medical things (IoMT)
    IT in healthcare
    Meditation and mental wellness apps
    Older generations and digital health
    Personalized healthcare
    Telemedicine
    Telemedicine in Brazil
    Telemedicine in Mexico
    Telemedicine in Spain
    Virtual wards

Implantable devices

    Oral health and dental care in China

Industry & Market

    Digital health in Canada
    Fresenius
    GE Healthcare
    Medical equipment in the UK
    Medical technology industry in Italy
    Women's health and FemTech market in Japan

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Medical Technology" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

