# State of Health

State of Health

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Health, Pharma & Medtech
    ›State of Health

State of Health

Health became a major issue worldwide with the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic reminded the world once more of the dangers of diseases and health risk factors, as well as the value of prevention measures and effective treatment. Moreover, the pandemic also highlighted the importance of mental health, as people around the world struggled with the anxiety, stress, and depression brought upon by the pandemic and isolation from lockdowns. One positive outcome of the COVID-19 pandemic may very well be a renewed focus on and interest in health. However, it is up to us to continue to practice, promote, and maintain health and wellbeing and to not forget the painful lessons the COVID-19 pandemic taught us.
Leading cause of death worldwide
Ischaemic heart disease
Vaccine with the highest coverage worldwide
DTP1
Share of U.S. adults who are obese
33%

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Diseases
    Mental health & substance abuse
    Prevention
    Therapy & treatment
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Global health
Diseases
U.S. mental health issues
Drug use in the U.S.
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic
Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the U.S.
Abortion in the U.S.
Death in the U.S.
College student health in the U.S.
Diabetes
Mental health in the UK
Stress and burnout
Global health
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Diseases
The impact of diseases

Predicted number of cancer deaths worldwide from 2022 to 2050
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Predicted number of cancer deaths worldwide from 2022 to 2050

Broadly, diseases in humans can refer to any condition that causes pain, discomfort, distress, or death. The main disease types include infectious diseases, deficiency diseases, hereditary diseases, and physiological diseases. However, diseases are often classified simply as communicable and non-communicable. Although the impact of a specific disease depends on the country, region, and population, some of the most common chronic diseases worldwide include cancer, heart diseases, and diabetes.
Cancer
Cardiovascular disease in the U.S.
Diabetes
Mental health & substance abuse
Diseases of the mind

Percentage of U.S. adults with any mental illness in the past year as of 2024, by age and gender
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Percentage of U.S. adults with any mental illness in the past year as of 2024, by age and gender

Although sometimes not as noticeable as other diseases, mental health problems are widespread around the world. Mental disorders impact millions of people, with the most common types including anxiety disorders and mood disorders, such as depression. Treatments for mental health issues include therapy, counseling, support groups, medication, and hospitalization. However, access to mental health services remains a problem in many countries.
Mental health worldwide
Suicide in the U.S.
Mental health in the UK
Prevention
The first line of defense

Global vaccination rates among one-year-olds regarding selected vaccines* from 1980 to 2021
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global vaccination rates among one-year-olds regarding selected vaccines* from 1980 to 2021

Although some diseases cannot be prevented, many are caused by risk behaviors. Therefore, the risk of certain diseases, such as cancer and heart disease, can be minimized through actions like healthy eating, exercising, not smoking, and having recommended screenings. Receiving recommended vaccinations is also one of the best ways to prevent some common and deadly diseases. Through vaccinations, diseases such as polio and measles are no longer problems in many parts of the world.
Health risk factors in the U.S.
Vaccinations in Europe
Contraception in the U.S.
Therapy & treatment
The never-ending battle

Distribution of organ transplants worldwide in 2024, by organ type
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Distribution of organ transplants worldwide in 2024, by organ type

Although medicine has improved greatly in recent decades, certain diseases still lack effective treatment, and access remains a relevant issue in many parts of the world. Treatments can include various types of therapies, surgery, and medicine. When a disease cannot be cured, treatment helps to control the disease and its symptoms.
Type of professional seen among U.S. adults with a major depressive episode
Percentage of people in the U.S. who received treatment for alcohol use in the past year
Most common diagnoses for U.S. patients using assisted reproductive technology (ART) for infertility
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The state of a person’s health describes the general condition of their mind and body. One’s state of health may be negatively impacted by disease or mental illness, and their race, ethnicity, gender, and income level may contribute to their health risks. Behavioral factors, such as smoking and unhealthy eating, can also impact one’s health and lead to an increased risk of disease. Although therapies and treatments have greatly improved, access to them remains a real problem, and not every disease can be effectively managed. Therefore, prevention of disease and health risks, for example through healthy living, early detection, and vaccination, remains essential in maintaining the health of populations.
Health, Pharma & Medtech

    Care & Support
    Health Professionals & Hospitals
    Health System
    Medical Technology
    Pharmaceutical Products & Market
    State of Health

More interesting topics from the industry "State of Health"
Abortion in France
Abortion in Italy
Abortion in Latin America
Abortion in the U.S.
Alcohol and health
Alcohol consumption and health in Italy
Alcohol consumption in the United Kingdom
Allergies in the U.S.
Anxiety in the U.S.
More interesting topics from the industry "State of Health"
Diseases

    Anemia
    Animal health in the U.S.
    Arthritis in the U.S.
    Asthma in the United Kingdom
    Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the U.S.
    Bleeding disorders
    Breast cancer in the U.S.
    Cancer among women in the U.S.
    Cancer care in the United Kingdom
    Cancer in Australia
    Cancer in Canada
    Cancer in China
    Cancer in India
    Cancer in Japan
    Cancer in Russia
    Cancer in South Africa
    Cancer in South Korea
    Cancer in Sweden
    Cardiovascular disease in Canada
    Cardiovascular disease in Europe
    Cardiovascular disease in India
    Cardiovascular disease in Norway
    Cardiovascular disease in the U.S.
    Cerebrovascular disease in the U.S.
    Cerebrovascular disease in the UK
    Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) in the U.S.
    Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) worldwide
    Chronic pain and rheumatic diseases in Europe
    Communicable diseases in the UK
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) - economic impact on India
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) impact on apparel and textiles in Europe
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Argentina
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Australia
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Austria
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Brazil
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Canada
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Chile
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in East Africa
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Finland
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in France
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Germany
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in India
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Japan
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Latin America
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Mexico
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Northern Africa
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Poland
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Romania
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Russia
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in South Africa
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Southern Africa
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Spain
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Sweden
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Switzerland
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the Asia-Pacific region
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the Benelux
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the CEE region
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the Netherlands
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the Nordics
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the U.S.
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the UK
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Tunisia
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the Philippines
    Coronavirus (COVID-19): impact on e-commerce in the U.S.
    Coronavirus (COVID-19): impact on health and hygiene in the tourism industry worldwide
    Coronavirus (COVID-19): impact on the energy industry
    Coronavirus (COVID-19): impact on the retail landscape in the U.S.
    Coronavirus COVID-19 in China
    Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic
    Coronavirus impact on global media consumption
    Coronavirus: impact on education in the U.S.
    Coronavirus: impact on online usage in the U.S.
    Coronavirus: impact on the global economy
    Coronavirus: impact on the retail industry worldwide
    COVID-19 impact on the media industry in Germany
    COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore
    COVID-19 vaccination rate in Germany
    COVID-19: Impact on the FMCG market worldwide
    COVID-19: impact on the tourism industry worldwide
    Dementia and Alzheimer's disease in Canada
    Dementia and Alzheimer's disease in Europe
    Diabetes
    Diabetes in Canada
    Diabetes in Europe
    Diabetes in Italy
    Diabetes in the U.S.
    Diabetes in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Disabilities in India
    Disability in France
    Disability in the United Kingdom
    Diseases
    Diseases in Canada
    Ebola virus disease (EVD)
    Epilepsy in the U.S.
    Foodborne illness in the U.S.
    Hepatitis in the U.S.
    Hepatitis worldwide
    HIV/AIDS in India
    HIV/AIDS in the U.S.
    HIV/AIDS worldwide
    Human papillomavirus (HPV) in the U.S.
    Hypertension in the United States
    Impact of COVID-19 on the global financial markets
    Impact of COVID-19 on tourism in Spain
    Impact of the coronavirus on sport
    Impact of the coronavirus on sports participation
    Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on older adults in the U.S.
    Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in the U.S.
    Influenza and pneumonia in Canada
    Influenza in the U.S.
    Kidney disease in the U.S.
    Liver disease in the U.S.
    Liver disease in the UK
    Long COVID in the UK
    Long COVID in the United States
    Lung cancer in the U.S.
    Lyme disease in the U.S.
    Malaria
    Measles in the U.S.
    Mental health in China
    Mental health in Japan
    Mosquito-borne diseases in the U.S.
    Mpox
    Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs)
    Organ donation in the United Kingdom
    Plague
    Prostate cancer in the U.S.
    Respiratory disease in the UK
    Sexual health in Europe
    Sexual health in the UK
    Sexually transmitted diseases in Canada
    Sexually transmitted infections in the U.S.
    Skin cancer in Europe
    Skin cancer in the UK
    Social media use during coronavirus (COVID-19) worldwide
    State of health in Ireland
    State of health in Japan
    State of health in Norway
    State of health in Southeast Asia
    State of health in the Asia-Pacific region
    State of health in the UK
    Tuberculosis
    Tuberculosis in India
    Vaccinations in Germany
    Vaccine-preventable diseases in the U.S.
    Women's health and FemTech market in Japan
    Zika virus disease

Mental Health & Substance Abuse

    Addiction in Poland
    Adolescent drug use in the U.S.
    Alcohol abuse in Canada
    Canada's opioid crisis
    Cannabis in Europe
    Climate change and mental health
    Depression in Europe
    Digital health in mental healthcare
    Eating disorders in the United Kingdom
    Global drug use
    Illicit drug use in Italy
    Mental health Germany
    Mental health in Argentina
    Mental health in Australia
    Mental health in Brazil
    Mental health in Chile
    Mental health in China
    Mental health in Europe
    Mental health in France
    Mental health in India
    Mental health in Italy
    Mental health in Japan
    Mental health in Mexico
    Mental health in Singapore
    Mental health in South Korea
    Mental health in Spain
    Mental health in Sweden
    Mental health in the Netherlands
    Mental health in the UK
    Mental health treatment in Italy
    Mental health worldwide
    Millennials' Mental health in the U.S.
    Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
    Smoking in Canada
    Smoking in the MENA region
    State of health in Japan
    Stress and burnout
    Substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation in Italy
    Substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation in the U.S.
    Substance use and addiction in Japan
    Substance use in South Korea
    Suicide in the U.S.
    The opioid epidemic in the U.S.
    Tobacco industry in Japan
    Unmet healthcare needs in the U.S.

Prevention

    Cancer in Japan
    Cancer in Russia
    Child Health and Nutrition
    Chinese COVID-19 vaccines
    Contraception in the United Kingdom
    Coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccination in Spain
    COVID-19 vaccination in the UK
    Dental care in the United Kingdom
    Diagnostics market in India
    Fitness industry in Latin America
    Immunization coverage in India
    Immunization rates in the UK
    Physical activity in Latin America
    Vaccination in France
    Vaccinations in Canada
    Vaccinations in Europe
    Vaccinations in Germany
    Vaccinations in Italy
    Vaccinations in the U.S.
    Vaccine hesitancy in the U.S.
    Vaccine-preventable diseases in the U.S.
    Views on vaccination in the U.S.

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "State of Health" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

