# Brands & Leaders
(بانتظار المحتوى...)
Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Advertising & Marketing
    ›Brands & Leaders

Brands & Leaders

The advertising and marketing industry is a dragon of many heads. The first is Procter & Gamble, the largest advertiser worldwide. Apple – the most valuable brand worldwide – can be considered another one. Yet another still could be the United States, as the most creative advertising market worldwide. However, as marketing and advertising are fast-paced industries, dependent on numerous external factors, the heads might roll at any time.
Largest advertiser worldwide
Procter & Gamble
Most valuable brand worldwide
Apple
Most creative advertising market
United States

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Largest advertisers
    Agency rankings
    Brand value
    Industry definition

Industry Insights
Brand value
Brands on social media
Beer Brands
Spirits Brands
Fast food brands in the U.S.
U.S. Retail Brands
Advertising agencies in the U.S.
Car brands in the United States
Celebrity beauty brands
U.S. Cosmetic Brands
Brands in India
Sports brands
Largest advertisers
Where ad revenues come from

Leading advertisers worldwide in 2023, by advertising spending (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading advertisers worldwide in 2023, by advertising spending (in billion U.S. dollars)

Advertising spending can account for a large chunk of a company’s expenses and the largest advertisers often come from the final goods sector, marketing foods, drinks, or cosmetics to end consumers. The title of largest advertiser worldwide goes to Procter & Gamble – a global giant owning numerous personal care and household brands. If it were a country, it would be the fourteenth largest advertising market worldwide, outbidding such major players as Russia or Spain.
Largest display advertisers in the U.S.
Fastest growing ad spenders in the U.S.
Leading U.S. retailers by ad spend
Agency rankings
Awarding excellence

Most creative agency networks worldwide in 2025 (index score)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most creative agency networks worldwide in 2025 (index score)

Agencies can be ranked using many metrics – fee income, creativity, effectivity, or number of acquisitions, to name just a few. Creativity is arguably the metric that produces the most buzz. In 2023, the campaign 'HP Streetcode' for Hewlett Packard, developed by Edelman, was named the most creative campaign worldwide. In essence, it addressed the digital divide present in Indonesia through street art.
Most successful PR campaigns worldwide
Most creative ad agencies worldwide
Media holding groups by revenue
Brand value
All-around most successful, ranked

Leading brands worldwide in 2025, by brand value (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading brands worldwide in 2025, by brand value (in billion U.S. dollars)

Brands with high brand value enjoy high recognition, successfully marketing their products and building customer loyalty. They are leaders in their industries. On a global level, the omnipresent internet & tech brands, such as Apple, Google, and Microsoft have occupied top spots in brand value rankings for quite some time now. On a national level, the leaders vary: in the UK, it is Vodafone – a telco provider; in Brazil, it is Itaú – a banking brand; whereas in Japan, it is Toyota.
Brand Value
Spirits Brands
Brands in India
Industry definition

The Brands and Leaders category showcases the best, largest, and most valuable in the advertising and marketing industry. From ad spending and ad revenue to rankings of largest advertisers and media holdings, data on all the important names in advertising can be found here. Additionally, this section offers creativity rankings of agencies, in-house marketers, and single campaigns for various marketing subsectors. Brand values and brand value rankings for multiple regions and industries complete the picture.
Advertising & Marketing

    Advertising
    Brands & Leaders
    Marketing

More interesting topics from the industry "Brands & Leaders"
Advertising in Portugal
Amazon advertising in the U.S.
Beauty brands on social media
Brand value
Brands in Canada
Brands in India
Celebrities in India
Cosmetics market in South Korea
Influencer marketing in India
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

