# Marketing
(بانتظار المحتوى...)
Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Advertising & Marketing
    ›Marketing

Marketing

In a reality increasingly dominated by artificial intelligence (AI), with changing consumer needs and spending habits, marketers are kept on their toes to answer the demands of the new normal. More than ever, careful analysis of data, and monitoring the effectiveness of implemented strategies are key to success. While omnichannel marketing is still the preferred strategy for many, the efforts need to be aimed at driving consumers to the currently available distribution channels, which, nowadays, are often digital only.
Public relations market size worldwide
107bn USD
Global influencer marketing size
16.4bn USD
Global marketing spending
897.7bn USD

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Artificial intelligence (AI) use in marketing
Advertising agencies in the U.S.
Marketing personalization worldwide
Marketing automation
Social media advertising and marketing worldwide
Influencer marketing in the U.S.
B2B advertising and marketing in the U.S.
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
A thriving sector, thanks to digital

Marketing budget as a percentage of companies' total revenues according to chief marketing officers (CMOs) in North America and Europe from 2014 to 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Marketing budget as a percentage of companies' total revenues according to chief marketing officers (CMOs) in North America and Europe from 2014 to 2024

Marketing services are a billion-dollar industry, showing positive growth all over the years. In the United States alone, marketing spending increased by more than nine percent to nearly 481 billion U.S. dollars in 2022. A segment growing exceptionally well is, unsurprisingly, digital marketing. For instance, in 2023, marketers are expected to increase their budget allocations on TikTok, YouTube, and Google.
Marketing worldwide
TikTok marketing
Marketing in the United States
Market segments
Direct marketing is king

Distribution of marketing budgets according to chief marketing officers (CMOs) in North America and Northern and Western Europe from 2017 to 2024, by segment
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Distribution of marketing budgets according to chief marketing officers (CMOs) in North America and Northern and Western Europe from 2017 to 2024, by segment

Among the traditional marketing services segments, paid media and marketing technology attract by far the highest spending, accounting for more than half of the total. Automation is a crucial pillar in today's marketing world. Marketing automation software revenues are expected to surpass 10 billion U.S. dollars worldwide by 2030.
Sports advertising and marketing worldwide
Public relations
Marketing technology
Industry trends
Technology to rule them all

Artificial intelligence (AI) adoption worldwide 2023, by industry and function
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Artificial intelligence (AI) adoption worldwide 2023, by industry and function

Cost-conscious brands exercise proactive marketing, basing their decision on careful analysis of consumer and market data. This trend gave way to big data marketing and the development of new marketing technologies. Artificial intelligence (AI) usage in marketing is becoming more and more of a norm, with a quarter of marketers worldwide using it in 2024.
AI use in marketing
Number of martech solutions worldwide
Number of martech M&A deals worldwide
Industry leaders
Giants' playground

Revenues of media groups worldwide from 2020 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenues of media groups worldwide from 2020 to 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Among the media holding groups, UK-based WPP is the largest, followed closely by Omnicom Group, headquartered in New York City. WPP is the owner of two top-10 digital agency networks – Wunderman Thompson and Ogilvy. Omnicom, on the other hand, owns the two most creative agency networks – BBDO and DDB. The French Publicis Groupe, Japanese Dentsu Group, and Interpublic Group from the United States complete the top five of the leading holding groups worldwide.
Revenue of global ad agencies industry
Leading marketing automation solution providers worldwide
"Big Five" ad agencies
Industry Definition

Marketing industry encompasses traditional marketing channels, such as events and direct mail, as well as digital channels, e.g. social media, mobile, and video. Also included is information on budgets and strategies, along with effectiveness ratings of business-to-business and business-to-consumer marketing methods. To complete the picture, Statista provides data on various types of marketing agencies, including business figures of individual firms as well as revenue and creativity rankings.
Advertising & Marketing

    Advertising
    Brands & Leaders
    Marketing

More interesting topics from the industry "Marketing"
Advertising agencies in the U.S.
Advertising and market research companies in Italy
Advertising in Argentina
Advertising in Mexico
Advertising in times of crisis
AI usage in marketing in India
Artificial intelligence (AI) in marketing in Europe
Artificial intelligence (AI) in marketing in Germany
Artificial intelligence (AI) use in marketing
More interesting topics from the industry "Marketing"
Online marketing

    Affiliate marketing in Indonesia
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in influencer marketing worldwide
    Artificial intelligence (AI) in marketing in China
    ASO - App Store Optimization
    Content marketing
    Creator economy in Japan
    Digital advertising in Japan
    Digital marketing in India
    Digital marketing in the UK
    Digital out-of-home (DOOH) advertising in the U.S.
    Digital out-of-home advertising in Germany
    Digital out-of-home advertising worldwide
    Digital video advertising and marketing in Europe
    Digital video advertising and marketing in the U.S.
    Digital video advertising and marketing worldwide
    Digitalization of the meetings industry
    E-commerce advertising and marketing
    E-mail marketing worldwide
    Free ad-supported streaming TV advertising in the United States
    Generative AI and ad agencies worldwide
    Generative AI in marketing
    Influencer marketing in Asia
    Influencer marketing in Brazil
    Influencer marketing in Canada
    Influencer marketing in Europe
    Influencer marketing in Germany
    Influencer marketing in India
    Influencer marketing in Japan
    Influencer marketing in Sweden
    Influencer marketing in Thailand
    Influencer marketing in the U.S.
    Influencer marketing in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Influencer marketing worldwide
    Influencer/KOL marketing in China
    Instagram in the Nordics
    Lemon8
    LinkedIn marketing
    Marketing personalization in the United States
    Marketing personalization worldwide
    Metaverse advertising & marketing in the U.S.
    Mobile advertising and marketing in Europe
    Mobile advertising and marketing worldwide
    Online video advertising and marketing in Asia
    Online video advertising in Japan
    Online video content creators
    Personalization in e-commerce
    Programmatic digital out-of-home (prDOOH) advertising
    Shoppable ads
    Social media advertising and marketing in Brazil
    Social media advertising and marketing in Europe
    Social media advertising and marketing in the U.S.
    Social media advertising and marketing worldwide
    Social media advertising in South Korea
    Social media and Generation Z in the United States
    Social media in Israel
    Social media marketing in China
    State of SEO strategies in France
    Streaming services advertising in the United States
    Synthetic advertising
    TikTok advertising & marketing in the U.S.
    TikTok marketing
    Virtual event marketing
    Virtual influencers
    WeChat marketing
    WhatsApp marketing in Brazil
    X (formerly Twitter) advertising and marketing

Traditional marketing

    Direct mail advertising and marketing in the U.S.
    OOH advertising in China

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

