# Celebrities

Celebrities

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Life
    ›Celebrities

Celebrities

Celebrities and show business are among the most popular lifestyle topics. A celebrity is someone with fame and broad public recognition through mass media or other outlets. This category provides the latest data and facts on film stars and musicians, famous entrepreneurs, and the paths that made them famous. Many of today's celebrities are worth millions, if not billions, and have become common household names.
Most popular member of the Royal Family
Prince William
Favorite French actress
Sophie Marceau
Most-followed athlete on Instagram
Cristiano Ronaldo

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Film
    Television
    Music
    Athletes
    The rich and famous
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Billionaires around the world
Music industry in South Korea
Eurovision Song Contest
Film industry in the United States & Canada
TV and movie award shows
Television industry worldwide
The British Royal Family
FIFA
NFL
Social media and politics in the United States
Academy Awards
The Emmy Awards
Film industry in the United States and Canada
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Film
Where do actors get their fame?

Actors with the most Academy Award nominations and their wins from 1929 to 2026
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Actors with the most Academy Award nominations and their wins from 1929 to 2026

Ever since the invention of moving pictures, the actors and actresses of the screen have been a focus of the world. People flock into the theatre to see the newest masterpieces from Hollywood and film studios from all over the world. As movies have become one of the greatest common pastimes, it is no wonder that those that play in them are paid so much and retain such a strong hold on the public's attention.
Film industry
Academy Awards
Movie Studios
Television
Is Television changing?

Female performers with the most Emmy Awards of all time as of August 2024
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Female performers with the most Emmy Awards of all time as of August 2024

Like the movie industry, the actors on television quickly become rich and famous. Popular shows stay on television for years, or even decades, holding the interest of the public and generating large amounts of wealth for their creators and actors. However, with changes in streaming and network access, the public may now watch their favorite shows anytime and anywhere. Shows like Game of Thrones held the attention of audiences from all over the world.
Television industry
The Emmy Awards
TV and movie awards shows
Music
Who is the wealthiest singer?

Most successful music tours worldwide in 2024, based on total gross revenue (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Most successful music tours worldwide in 2024, based on total gross revenue (in million U.S. dollars)

Today, the most popular singers and songwriters are worth millions and are watched by the public just as much as the biggest actors. With the introduction of streaming platforms and digital content, people are able to access their favorite songs at any time and don't need to wait for them on the radio. Celebrity singers like Taylor Swift are listened to by millions, and their music videos are watched on platforms like YouTube daily.
Music Awards
Eurovision Song Contest
K-pop
Athletes
Who is the most popular athlete?

Leading athletes on Instagram worldwide as of September 2022, by followers (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading athletes on Instagram worldwide as of September 2022, by followers (in millions)

Professional athletes have always been the center of attention, but today that popularity can extend all over the globe. Athletes are followed on social media and watched both during and after their athletic performances. With faster internet and streaming platforms, sporting events can be watched from all over the world, making major events like the NFL's Super Bowl or the FIFA World Cup accessible to everyone.
FIFA
NFL
World's highest paid athletes
The rich and famous
Through what other ways could someone become famous?

Leading social media billionaires as of April 2025, by net worth (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading social media billionaires as of April 2025, by net worth (in billion U.S. dollars)

Becoming famous today seems to extend to more than just being a good performer or athlete. Some of the most famous people in the world are famous simply because they are rich. Entrepreneurs and businessmen like Bill Gates obtained fame along with their fortune. Some however, are born into both. Royal families, for example, remain in the limelight and have even inspired multiple movies or television shows. Likewise, modern politicians have also tapped into the resource of fame and fortune.
Billionaires around the world
The British Royal Family
Social media and U.S. politics
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The celebrities category offers data on the industries with the most, and most popular, famous individuals. A celebrity is someone with fame and broad public recognition through mass media or other outlets. Within this sector, Statista provides the latest data and facts on film stars and musicians, famous entrepreneurs, and the paths that made them famous. Additionally, data on the highest paid individuals and their worth is provided. Many of today's celebrities are worth millions, if not billions, and have become common household names.
Life

    Celebrities
    Family & Friends
    Love & Sex
    Personality & Behavior
    Public and religious holidays

More interesting topics from the industry "Celebrities"
Big Brother in Brazil
Billionaires around the world
Celebrities and fandom in Japan
Celebrities in India
Celebrity beauty brands
HYBE Corporation
K-pop and the Big 4 entertainment agencies in South Korea
K-pop artist BTS
K-pop artists
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

