# Business Services

Business Services

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Services
    ›Business Services

Business Services

Technology and digitalization have transformed the business services sector in recent years - and keep doing so - with many services now being provided through web platforms and system, or mobile apps. Startups have sprung up across the world, with ideas and business solutions that are innovative, flexible, and sustainable. New communication technologies and infrastructures allowed the industry to expand its reach, making outsourcing more and more common. With organizations choosing outsourcing over in-house solutions, business services providers are developing fast to respond to transforming needs and demands. The impact of the coronavirus pandemic will likely accelerate these trends, with companies looking for new technological solutions to provide their services and to adapt to the new market dynamics.
Market size of the management consulting services industry in the United States
374.4bn USD
Market size of the market research industry worldwide
84.33bn USD
Market size of the executive search industry worldwide
35bn EUR

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Consulting
    Market research
    Facility management
    Staffing & personnel
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
"Big Four" accounting/audit firms
Market research industry
Business process outsourcing industry worldwide
Staffing industry worldwide
Staffing industry in the U.S.
Accounting industry in the U.S.
Consulting industry in the U.S.
"Big Four" accounting/audit firms
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Consulting
New business challenges drive the consultancy market

Market size of the management consulting industry worldwide from 2014 to 2023, with a forecast for 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the management consulting industry worldwide from 2014 to 2023, with a forecast for 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

In recent years, the management consulting sector has expanded at a fast pace, with North America and Europe being the largest markets. An increasing number of organizations hire consultants to seek advice on how to overcome challenges and improve business performance. In 2020, McKinsey & Company ranked as the most prestigious consulting firm in the United States. However, the global leaders in the sector are the so-called Big Four - Deloitte, EY, KPMG, and PwC.
Consulting market size in Africa and the Middle East
Revenue breakdown of the Big Four
Number of management consultants in the U.S.
Market research
Data is the new gold

Revenue of the market research industry worldwide from 2008 to 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of the market research industry worldwide from 2008 to 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Due to the ever-increasing amount of data produced, gathered, and then analyzed, the global revenue of this industry has experienced strong growth in recent years. Market research, which relies on tools such as statistics, models, surveys, and, increasingly, big data analytics, has become crucial to predict and meet customers’ needs, to effectively promote R&D, and to invest in new markets. Global leaders in this industry include Nielsen Holdings, Kantar, IQVIA, Ipsos, and GfK Group.
Regional breakdown of the market research revenue
Leading market research companies worldwide
Most profitable market research methods worldwide
Facility management
New needs call for new ideas

Facility management market size worldwide from 2020 to 2023, with a forecast for 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Facility management market size worldwide from 2020 to 2023, with a forecast for 2030 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Facility managers’ task is to ensure that work environments are efficient and safe, by integrating technology, people, and processes. The global FM market is expected to keep growing in the coming years, with more companies focusing on employees’ safety and wellbeing. However, the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has changed the traditional attitudes towards workplaces and offices, which calls for a re-thinking of the idea of workspaces and a transition to more flexible working solutions.
Leading facility services providers by market capitalization
Leading facility management providers in Europe
Most important issues according to facility managers
Staffing & personnel
The quest to find the right candidate

Staffing industry revenue worldwide from 2008 to 2023, with a forecast for 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Staffing industry revenue worldwide from 2008 to 2023, with a forecast for 2024 (in billion U.S. dollars)

Following a decade of continuous growth, the global staffing industry generated a revenue of nearly half a trillion U.S. dollars in 2019. In recent years, social professional networks, like LinkedIn, and Xing, have transformed the industry, becoming the leading platforms for jobseekers to promote themselves and for companies to find quality candidates. This trend will likely continue, supported by further technological advancements, like AI and predictive analytics.
Main challenges facing staffing firms worldwide
Distribution of staffing industry sales in the U.S.
Staffing and recruiting industry sales in the U.S.
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The section Business Services provides data and insights on the B2B services industry. This industry encompasses a wide variety of sectors, according to the service offered. The main sectors include accounting and consulting, facility management, market research, and staffing. Companies operating in the business services industry provide professional, scientific, and technical support to organizations operating in other industries. These companies rely on highly skilled labor, and employees often require advanced degrees or specialized trainings.
Services

    Business Services
    Skilled Labor

More interesting topics from the industry "Business Services"
"Big Four" accounting/audit firms
"Big Four" consulting firms in the UK
Accenture
Accounting industry in the U.S.
Adecco Group
AI use at contact centers
AI use in HR departments
AI use in professional services
AI use in the legal services industry
More interesting topics from the industry "Business Services"
Callcenter

    Call center services industry in the U.S.
    Customer satisfaction in Japan

Consulting

    "Big Four" accounting/audit firms in the U.S.
    Business service industry in the Middle East
    Consulting industry in Brazil
    Consulting industry in Japan
    Consulting industry in the U.S.
    Consulting industry worldwide

Facility Management

    Facility management in Sweden

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Business Services" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

