# Food & Drink Services

Food & Drink Services

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Travel, Tourism & Hospitality
    ›Food & Drink Services

Food & Drink Services

The food and drink services industry faced unprecedented change due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Social distancing requirements and a range of ensuing safety measures meant that, across the globe, it was no longer possible to dine or drink in-house at food and drink locations. This forced the already established trend of digitalization to accelerate in the industry. Food and drink service providers expanded their digital presence by introducing online ordering and delivery services to stay afloat. Furthermore, virtual concepts, or “ghost kitchens” - restaurants in which only cooking is done, but no guests are served – solidified their place in the market. Today, the marketplace for food delivery and takeout is soaring, a trend that will likely continue to influence restaurant operations and reshape the dining experience for years to come.
Food and drink services company with the highest market value worldwide
McDonald's
Market size of the global food service industry
2.52 tn USD
City with the most Michelin-starred restaurants worldwide
Tokyo, Japan

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Restaurants and food services in Europe
Restaurants in the U.S.
Fast food restaurants in the U.S.
Restaurants in the UK
Restaurant delivery in the U.S.
Online food delivery in Europe
Online food delivery in Latin America
Online food delivery in China
Restaurant delivery and takeaway in the United Kingdom
Coffee shops and cafes in the U.S.
Global Accommodation, Restaurants & Nightlife – Industry Insights & Data Analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Growth in the online food delivery market

Market size of the global food service industry in 2021, with a forecast for 2028 (in trillion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the global food service industry in 2021, with a forecast for 2028 (in trillion U.S. dollars)

While the coronavirus pandemic caused a decline in revenue across many of the food and drink services segments, figures have begun to reach pre-pandemic levels again and forecasts are predicting future growth, including that of the overall industry. In particular, the online food delivery market size is forecast to grow more than was expected prior to the pandemic in the upcoming years.
Online food delivery market size worldwide
Countries with the highest restaurant and hotel spending
Market segments
Quick service restaurants stay on top

Market size of the quick service restaurant industry worldwide in 2022 and 2023 (in trillion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market size of the quick service restaurant industry worldwide in 2022 and 2023 (in trillion U.S. dollars)

Quick services restaurants (QSRs) are some of the largest food and drink service companies in the world. This did not change during or after the pandemic, in fact, many QSRs already offered online ordering and delivery services prior to the pandemic. As a result, they were far more prepared for the crisis than their full service restaurant (FSR) counterparts. Coffeehouses, having a similar business model to QSRs, also proved resilient. Meanwhile, bars and nightclubs suffered greatly.
Coffeehouse industry worldwide
Fast food industry in the U.S.
Bar and nightclub industry
Industry trends
Food and drink services adapt to changing consumer demands

Cities with the highest share of vegan-friendly restaurants worldwide as of April 2021
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Cities with the highest share of vegan-friendly restaurants worldwide as of April 2021

Consumer needs changed significantly because of the pandemic. These days, exceptional hygiene standards, online ordering, and home delivery have become essential requirements for many food and drink establishments. However, now consumers are back to in-person dining, companies are focusing again on trends like sustainability, vegetarian and vegan cuisine, and technological innovation like augmented reality (AR) menus and restaurant tours.
Online food delivery services in the U.S.
Online food delivery services in Europe
Online food delivery services in Latin America
Industry leaders
Quick service restaurant companies dominate the market

Leading food and drink services companies worldwide as of April 2025, by sales (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading food and drink services companies worldwide as of April 2025, by sales (in billion U.S. dollars)

When it comes to food and drink service industry leaders, U.S. quick service restaurant (QSR) companies hold the most top spots. Coffee shop behemoth, Starbucks, has been the largest coffee shop chain in the world for many years, while world-famous QSR McDonald's is always high in the rankings. Meanwhile, when looking outside of North America, Yum China Holdings, Inc. accounted for the highest sales of any food service company in Asia.
Fast food restaurants in the U.S.
McDonald's
Starbucks
State of the industry

Industry Definition

The food and drink services industry can be broadly defined as the process of preparing, presenting, and serving food and drink to customers. It incorporates many different sectors, including quick service and causal dining restaurants, full service restaurants, cafes and coffee shops, bars, clubs, nightclubs, catering services, canteens, and more. Additionally, these individual sectors are subject to different trends, one example that is relevant to all of them is the rise of digitization and the online market. However, trend topics can also be more specific, for example, the demand for ethically sourced coffee in cafes and coffeeshops. New trends will continue to transform the outlook of this industry, the most notable of which being the coronavirus pandemic which is predicted to change food and drink services for years to come.
Travel, Tourism & Hospitality

    Accommodation
    Business Travel
    Food & Drink Services
    Leisure Travel

More interesting topics from the industry "Food & Drink Services"
Bars and nightclubs in the U.S.
Beer industry in the UK
Beer market in Ireland
Burger King
Cafes and coffee shops in the United Kingdom
Craft beer in the UK
Cuisine trends in the U.S.
Cuisine trends in the UK
Denny's
More interesting topics from the industry "Food & Drink Services"
Bars, Pubs and Nightclubs

    J D Wetherspoon
    Nightlife venues in Spain
    Pubs in the United Kingdom

Cafes and Coffee Shops

    Bubble tea market in China
    Cafés and coffee shops in France
    Coffee market in Australia
    Coffee market in Finland
    Coffee market in Poland
    Coffee shops and cafes in the U.S.
    Coffee shops in Japan
    Starbucks
    Tea market in Poland

Catering & Canteens

    Catering services in the U.S.
    Restaurant delivery and takeaway in the United Kingdom 

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Food & Drink Services" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

