# Leisure Travel

Leisure Travel


Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Travel, Tourism & Hospitality
    ›Leisure Travel

Leisure Travel

Travel & tourism is one of the biggest sectors in terms of global economic impact. In this respect, leisure travel represents by far the most important segment. In the United States and China – the leading countries based on travel & tourism contribution to the global GDP – leisure travel accounts for roughly 65 percent and 80 percent of the total tourism spending, respectively.

Online travel agencies (OTAs) play a prominent role in the leisure travel market, with online sales channels representing over two-thirds of global travel and tourism revenue. While the onset of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic upended the OTA market, leading players such as Booking, Expedia, and Airbnb experienced a rebound in revenue in 2022.
Country with the highest number of inbound tourist arrivals worldwide
France
Leading online travel agency worldwide by revenue
Booking Holdings
Number of ocean cruise passengers worldwide
4.8m

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Travel and tourism worldwide
COVID-19: impact on the tourism industry worldwide
Online travel market
Booking Holdings Inc.
Airbnb
Cruise industry worldwide
Cruise industry in the Caribbean
Impact of technology on travel and tourism
Mobile travel trends
Travel and tourism in the U.S.
Travel and tourism in Europe
Travel agency industry
Travel and tourism worldwide
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Leisure trips are on the road to recovery

Leisure tourism spending worldwide from 2019 to 2024 (in trillion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leisure tourism spending worldwide from 2019 to 2024 (in trillion U.S. dollars)

Leisure travel generates approximately 80 percent of global travel and tourism expenditure. While spending on vacation trips fell dramatically with the onset of the health crisis, the market is gradually recovering from the impact of COVID-19. As estimated by Statista, the package holidays segment, a key component of leisure travel, is expected to surpass pre-pandemic revenue in 2023.
Tourism industry worldwide
COVID-19 impact on the tourism industry worldwide
Travel and tourism revenue worldwide 2017-2026, by segment
Market segments
The cruise passenger volume is rising but so are cruise lines' costs

Number of ocean cruise passengers worldwide from 1985 to 2024, with a forecast until 2028 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of ocean cruise passengers worldwide from 1985 to 2024, with a forecast until 2028 (in millions)

One of the travel and tourism segments worst hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, the global cruise industry breathed a sigh of relief in 2022, as the number of passengers carried by leading companies like Carnival, Royal Caribbean, and Norwegian Cruise Line bounced back. While the increase in global cruise revenue is cause for optimism for the major cruise lines, the financial losses accumulated during the health crisis and the costs related to investments in new vessels are not to be overlooked.
Cruise industry worldwide
Cruise industry in the Caribbean
Cruise industry in Europe
Industry trends
The mobile travel app market is on the rise

Revenue of the travel apps industry worldwide from 2017 to 2029 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Revenue of the travel apps industry worldwide from 2017 to 2029 (in million U.S. dollars)

During the last 15 years, the mobile segment has gradually gained momentum in the travel and tourism market, driven by an increase in smartphone users. Global travel app revenue is expected to rise steadily in the following years, reaching nearly two billion U.S. dollars by 2027. The U.S. and China, the leading markets in the travel apps segment, represent alone over 70 percent of this market’s earnings.
Mobile travel trends
Digitalization of the travel industry
Most downloaded online travel agency apps worldwide 2022, by downloads
Industry leaders
The giants of the online travel market

Market cap of selected leading online travel companies worldwide as of November 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Market cap of selected leading online travel companies worldwide as of November 2025 (in million U.S. dollars)

Booking Holdings and Expedia Group are the biggest online travel agencies based on global revenue. The two companies control a range of key brands in the online travel market, such as Booking.com, Priceline, Agoda, and KAYAK (Booking Holdings), then Vrbo, Hotels.com, and trivago (Expedia Group). While Airbnb and Trip.com rank among the global OTAs with the highest market cap, Tripadvisor is only second to Booking.com in terms of online traffic to travel websites.
Online travel market
Travel companies worldwide
Travel agency industry worldwide
Regional overview
Europe leads on international tourism

Number of international tourist arrivals worldwide from 2005 to 2025, by region (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of international tourist arrivals worldwide from 2005 to 2025, by region (in millions)

Europe is by far the most visited region worldwide based on international tourist arrivals, with Southern and Mediterranean Europe being the most popular subregion. While Asia and the Pacific reported the second-highest inbound tourism volume prior to the health crisis, this region has ranked behind the Americas since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, most likely due to China maintaining its quarantine measures up to early 2023.
Travel and tourism in Europe
Inbound tourism in Europe
Tourism industry in the Asia-Pacific region
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Leisure travel refers to trips taken for relaxation and pleasure. It includes the segments of cruises, travel destinations, holiday activities, online travel market, tour operators and travel agencies. The cruise market mainly focuses on passenger movements, cruise ports and calls, occupancy rate, and bookings. The holiday destination and activities segments look at domestic and international tourism destinations, exploring tourist attractions, and trip purposes.

The internet era meant the rise of the online travel market. This segment encompasses online travel agencies (OTAs), which allow tourists to book by themselves travel services on the web, and digital travel-related experiences, like online reviews. While brick-and-mortar travel agencies lost ground to OTAs, some consumers still prefer face-to-face support when booking trips. Apart from analyzing the state of such businesses, this market also looks at the online presence of travel agencies and tour operators.
Travel, Tourism & Hospitality

    Accommodation
    Business Travel
    Food & Drink Services
    Leisure Travel

More interesting topics from the industry "Leisure Travel"
Accommodations in South Korea
Backpacking in Europe
Camping in Germany
Carnivals
Coastal tourism in France
Coronavirus (COVID-19): impact on staycations in the U.S.
Cruise industry Belgium
Cruise industry in Germany
Cruise industry Netherlands
More interesting topics from the industry "Leisure Travel"
Cruises

    Cruise industry in Australia
    Cruise industry in Europe
    Cruise industry in Italy
    Cruise industry in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Cruise industry in the United States
    Cruise industry worldwide
    Luxury travel and tourism worldwide
    Travel and tourism in Malta

Destinations

    Chinese tourism in Europe
    City tourism in Europe
    City tourism in Latin America
    Domestic tourism in European countries
    Heritage sites and national parks in Latin America
    Hotels in Latin America
    Hotels in Spain
    Inbound tourism in Europe
    Mahakumbh Mela
    National park tourism in the U.S.
    Overtourism in European cities
    Tourism in Amsterdam
    Tourism in Barcelona
    Tourism in Berlin
    Tourism in Edinburgh
    Tourism in Italian cities
    Tourism in Las Vegas
    Tourism in London
    Tourism in New York
    Tourism in Paris
    Tourism in Rome
    Tourism in the Balearic and Canary Islands
    Tourism in Venice
    Tourism industry in Egypt
    Tourism industry in UAE
    Tourism on the Amalfi Coast
    Tourism on the Greek islands
    Transport industry in UAE
    Travel and tourism in Australia
    Travel and tourism in Croatia
    Travel and tourism in Iceland
    Travel and tourism in New Zealand
    Travel and tourism in Portugal
    Vacation travel behavior in the United Kingdom (UK)
    Visitor attractions in Paris
    Winter tourism in Europe

Holiday Activities

    Carnival in Brazil
    Experiential travel: tours, activities, and attractions
    Klook Technology Limited
    Live music in China
    Recreational boating in the U.S.
    Spa industry
    Tourism industry in Egypt
    Tourism industry in UAE
    Transport industry in UAE
    Travel and tourism in Australia
    Travel and tourism in New Zealand
    Wellness industry
    Wellness industry in the U.S.
    Wellness industry in the UK
    Winter tourism in Europe

Other interesting topics relating to the sub-industries of the "Leisure Travel" industry
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

