# Fisheries & Aquaculture
(بانتظار المحتوى...)
Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Agriculture
    ›Fisheries & Aquaculture

Fisheries & Aquaculture

Fishery and aquaculture have always helped to feed the global population. However, concerns over the sustainability of industrial fishing are increasingly shaping the discussion in this agricultural sector. Overfishing threatens the livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people who live from fishing. The South China Sea is a prime example of a region that is threatened by overfishing and a possible fish stock collapse.

The two biggest fishing nations, China and Indonesia, as well as their neighbors, have been in a protracted political struggle over fishing rights in the area and adjacent territories. While fishing fleets spread out to reach more remote fishing grounds, the use of aquaculture is becoming more widespread, especially in Asia. It is increasingly viewed as a more sustainable alternative that can help secure the food supply of a growing global population.
Global fish production
184.6m mt
Leading fish producer
China
Global number of fishers and fish farmers
58.5m

    Overview
    Industry insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Regional overview
    State of the industry
    Industry definition

Industry insights
Fish and seafood industry in Canada
Fish and seafood industry in Norway
Fishing industry in Japan
U.S. fishery industry
Fishing industry in China
Fishery and aquaculture in Vietnam
Fisheries in Indonesia
Fish and seafood in the UK
Fish & Seafood: market data & analysis
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
World fish production grows steadily

Global fish production from 2002 to 2025 (in million metric tons)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Global fish production from 2002 to 2025 (in million metric tons)

Global fish production was estimated to reach a volume of 186.6 million metric tons by 2023. In the past decade production has grown by roughly 30 million metric tons. This includes both aquaculture production as well as wild fishing.
Global fish production by type
per capita seafood consumption in China
Sales value of salmon market worldwide
Market segments
The rise of aquaculture

World fish production from 2007 to 2024, with a forecast for 2025, by fishing and aquaculture (in million metric tons)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic World fish production from 2007 to 2024, with a forecast for 2025, by fishing and aquaculture (in million metric tons)

In 2022, global fish production from aquaculture came to an estimated 96 million metric tons. It came beyond the 90.6 million tons produced by fishing.

The gap between the output of wild fish catching and fish farming, whether on the high seas or on land, has become ever closer. In the last decade alone, aquaculture output has grown by almost 30 million tons. If this trend continues, farmed fish will soon replace caught fish as the number one source of fish.
Aquaculture production in Europe
Aquaculture prodcution volume in China
Global aquaculture market value forecast
Regional overview
China, the fishing juggernaut

Top 10 fishing nations worldwide in 2021 (in million metric tons)*
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Top 10 fishing nations worldwide in 2021 (in million metric tons)*

In 2021, China was the leading producer of captured fish, crustaceans, mollusks, and other sea life. China caught fish and other seafood with a volume of 13.4 million metric tons. It caught more than twice as much as the next biggest fish catching nation, Indonesia.

Including Russia, six of the leading ten fishing nations of the world were Asian nations. In aquaculture the leading position of Asian nations is even more pronounced.
Wild caught fish and seafood production volume in China
Share of fish production worldwide
Leading aquaculture species in China
State of the industry

Industry definition

The fisheries and aquaculture category offers data on the commercial business of catching fish and other aquatic animals. Commercial fishing involves the harvesting of wild fish. In contrast, aquaculture is the cultivation and harvesting of aquatic populations under controlled conditions for human consumption, in both fresh and saltwater.

Within this sector, Statista provides information about the fishery operations and trade of different nations. Data coverage includes overviews of various fish species landings, production values, industry revenues, and the final fishery products.
Agriculture

    Farming
    Fisheries & Aquaculture
    Forestry

More interesting topics from the industry "Fisheries & Aquaculture"
Agriculture in Myanmar
Agriculture in Portugal
Agriculture in Thailand
Agriculture in the Philippines
Agriculture in Turkey
Fish and seafood industry in Canada
Fish and seafood industry in Finland
Fish and seafood industry in Italy
Fish and seafood industry in Norway
We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

