# Industrial Real Estate

Industrial Real Estate

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Real Estate
    ›Industrial Real Estate

Industrial Real Estate

The industrial and logistics real estate sector includes property types such as manufacturing facilities, fulfillment centers, small or big-box warehouses, last mile logistics, and self-storage. Often, facilities are organized in logistics hubs around seaports, airports, and major highways. Last mile distribution refers to the final step of the delivery process, which means locating it as close to the customer as possible is crucial. Because they vary widely in their use, industrial and logistics facilities are often built to suit the need of the specific operation, with varying levels of automation.

As the sector grows to support the rise of e-commerce and the need for resilient supply chains closer to the end-consumer, there has been a boost in speculative development, or development projects without a commitment to a buyer or occupier. Because of its potential to reduce costs and increase efficiency, automation is becoming increasingly important for the sector.
Industrial and logistics real estate investment value in Europe
32bn EUR
U.S. market with the most industrial and logistics real estate demand
Houston, TX, Dallas/Ft. Worth, TX, and PA I-81/I-78 Distribution Corridor
Vacancy rate of logistics facilities in Greater Tokyo
7.1%

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Market leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Industrial and logistics property in the UK
Industrial and logistic real estate in Denmark
Industrial and logistic real estate in Sweden
Industrial and logistic real estate in the Nordics
Industrial and logistics real estate in the U.S.
Industrial and logistics real estate in Japan
Industrial and logistics real estate
Industrial and logistics real estate in Europe
Self-storage in the United States
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
Which are the largest industrial and logistics real estate investment markets in Europe?

Industrial and logistics real estate investment in Europe in 2023, by country (in million euros)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Industrial and logistics real estate investment in Europe in 2023, by country (in million euros)

The UK, Germany, and France make up the majority of industrial and logistics real estate investment in Europe. The recent growth of the sector has been fueled by the e-commerce market and the increased importance of safeguarding supply chains following the COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, geopolitical tensions, slower economic growth, and higher interest rates have resulted in a decline in investment in the sector.
Industrial and logistic real estate in the UK
U.S. self-storage
Industrial and logistics real estate worldwide
Market segments
What is the rental cost of big box buildings in the U.S.?

Annual taking rent per square foot of industrial big-box property in the United States from 2013 to 2023 (in U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Annual taking rent per square foot of industrial big-box property in the United States from 2013 to 2023 (in U.S. dollars)

Rental costs across industrial and logistic properties vary widely across countries and regions but the overall high demand in the recent years keeps rental costs growing. In North America, the average asking rent for big box properties has increased year-on-year since 2012. Among the most expensive markets are Northern Central (NJ), Inland Empire (CA), and Houston (TX).
Existing big-box space size in North America
Warehouse take-up rate in Germany
Average warehouse rent in Greater Jakarta
Market leaders
Which is the leading self-storage REIT by market cap?

Leading self-storage REITs in the United States from 2019 to 2023, by market cap (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading self-storage REITs in the United States from 2019 to 2023, by market cap (in billion U.S. dollars)

Self-storage facilities are a solution for both private individuals and businesses that need more storage capacity or a temporary place to store furniture, equipment, or business items. Public Storage is the biggest U.S. self-storage operators by market cap. The company operates globally, including seven European countries.
Leading UK self-storage brands
Revenue of Prologis, by segment
Largest industrial REITs in the U.S., by market cap
State of the industry

    Industrial and logistics real estate in Europe
    Costco Wholesale Corporation
    Big-box real estate in the United States
    Industrial and logistics real estate market
    Industrial and logistics real estate in Japan

Industry Definition

Industrial real estate includes any real estate used for manufacturing, storage, distribution, or other special function. Industrial properties are diverse in size and can exceed 100,000 square feet. Often, they feature mixed-zone buildings with offices and other commercial spaces. Because industrial buildings are highly specialized, they are subject to long-term leases.
Real Estate

    Commercial Real Estate
    Industrial Real Estate
    Mortgages & Financing
    Property Services
    Residential Real Estate

More interesting topics from the industry "Industrial Real Estate"
Industrial and logistics real estate in Japan
Logistics market in Romania
Real estate in the Baltics
More interesting topics from the industry "Industrial Real Estate"
Self-Storage

    Self-storage in the U.S.

Warehouses

    Industrial and logistics real estate
    Industrial and logistics real estate in Europe

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

