# Property Services

Property Services

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Real Estate
    ›Property Services

Property Services

Real estate is more than the buildings we see and use daily. Behind the façade, there is a vast network of companies and professionals that make the industry possible. Just like any other industry, real estate evolves and faces constant changes. Digitalization and proptech have begun revolutionizing the sector by reshaping business processes and making new services and products possible. With the rise in popularity of coworking and coliving, the concept of space as a service has been changing not only commercial and residential properties but also the way we live and do business.
Largest global real estate company by market value
China Resources Land Limited (Hong Kong)
Largest real estate company by market value in Europe
Segro (UK)
Biggest proptech fundraisers worldwide
Fifth wall (U.S.)

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Industry leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Flexible workspace in the Asia-Pacific region
WeWork
Proptech
CBRE Group
Evergrande Group
China Vanke
Proptech
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
North America is the largest market for listed real estate companies worldwide

Value of listed real estate market worldwide as of December 2025, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Value of listed real estate market worldwide as of December 2025, by region (in billion U.S. dollars)

Coming up with an estimated size of the real estate market is not an easy task. In 2023, the aggregate value of listed real estate companies worldwide exceeded three trillion U.S. dollars. Listed real estate companies are companies whose stock is traded on a stock exchange. They can operate in one or more of the following segments: real estate development, investment management, operating, and brokerage.
Value of listed real estate market in Europe, by country
Market cap of REITs in the U.S.
Real estate developer investments in China, by building use
Market segments
The number of agents in the U.S. reached an all-time high in 2021

Number of National Association of Realtors members in the United States from 2009 to 2023 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of National Association of Realtors members in the United States from 2009 to 2023 (in millions)

The role of the real estate agent is to assist both sellers and buyers in making the right decision. Agents not only market the properties and find buyers, but also prepare the paperwork for the transaction. In the U.S., the number of agents registered in the National Association of Realtors (NAR) has increased since 2012 under the effects of the growing housing market. Nevertheless, as the market slowed in 2023, the number of NAR members declined for the first-time in over a decade.
Commission rate of real estate agents in the U.S.
Number of licensed real estate agents in Belgium
Average stock per real estate agent in the UK
Industry trends
Proptech is revolutionizing the real estate sector

Value of venture capital raised by proptech companies worldwide from 2019 to 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Value of venture capital raised by proptech companies worldwide from 2019 to 2023 (in billion U.S. dollars)

As Artificial Intelligence (AI), blockchain, and big data analytics advance, the real estate industry has a real opportunity to embrace new concepts and products, as well as disrupt and improve existing processes. Naturally, this is not possible without major investment. Since 2021, venture capital investment has overall declined due to economic uncertainty, leading in a decline in proptech investment.
Investor interest in selected proptech innovations worldwide
Use of digital twins in real estate
Use of AI in real estate
Industry leaders
Zillow, Realtor, and Trulia are among the most popular U.S. real estate websites

Average monthly visits to the five most popular real estate websites in the United States from 2020 to 2024 (in millions)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average monthly visits to the five most popular real estate websites in the United States from 2020 to 2024 (in millions)

Online real estate portals offer various products and services, such as information, analytics, and marketplaces. One of the reasons that makes online portals a valuable one-stop destination for individuals and businesses is that they combine features concerning different stages of the buying or letting process: property listings, agent profiles, reviews, mortgage calculators, and virtual tours.
Leading REITs worldwide by market cap
Leading real estate companies listed on the London Stock Exchange by market cap
Total assets of CBRE Group
State of the industry

    CBRE Group
    WeWork
    REITs market worldwide
    Residential Real Estate: market data & analysis
    Commercial Real Estate: market data & analysis 

Industry Definition

Property services is an umbrella term for services that facilitate the real estate sector. This includes various institutions specializing in residential and commercial real estate investment, sales, and management. Furthermore, it includes property technology innovation companies that develop and optimize real estate services and products. Naturally, there are many activities that are vital to the sector but are excluded from this section and can be found elsewhere on our platform:

    Construction, renovations, and interior design;
    Property level technology, amenity and services management.


Real Estate

    Commercial Real Estate
    Industrial Real Estate
    Mortgages & Financing
    Property Services
    Residential Real Estate

More interesting topics from the industry "Property Services"
PropTech

    Proptech

Real Estate Companies

    CBRE Group
    China Vanke
    Evergrande Group
    Real estate agencies in Japan
    Real estate companies in Japan
    REITs market worldwide

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

