# Residential Real Estate

Residential Real Estate

Skip to main content

    Statistics
    Research AI
    Connect New
    Daily Data
    Services
    Prices & Access 

    Industries
    ›Real Estate
    ›Residential Real Estate

Residential Real Estate

Whether owned or a rental, having the right home is more than just a necessity. For many, buying a home is an important milestone in life and a way to build equity over time. In a household’s portfolio, housing is often the most valuable asset. The housing sector concentrates a significant portion of global wealth.

Although the residential real estate market differs widely in different countries and regions worldwide, since the coronavirus pandemic, there has been an overall trend of growing house prices. This trend has also affected rental housing and has increased the popularity of residential real estate among investors. Multifamily real estate, also known as build-to-rent housing, has become one of the biggest investment asset classes. Renting is very popular in certain countries and cities. For many, the reason they rent is because of affordability and job security. Though this might be the case, renting is often a lifestyle choice that allows more flexibility.
Size of luxury property one million dollars can buy in Monaco
16 sq m
Number of house sales in Canada
443,511
House price-to-rent ratio in the UK
128.2

    Overview
    Industry Insights
    Market size
    Market segments
    Industry trends
    Market leaders
    State of the industry
    Industry Definition

Industry Insights
Housing market in the U.S.
Rental market in the U.S.
Single-family homes in the U.S.
Residential real estate in Germany
Residential real estate in Europe
UK rental market
Residential construction in the U.S.
Residential housing market in Australia
Residential real estate in London
Residential real estate in the UK
Residential real estate in Spain
Residential rents in Europe
Housing market in the United States
Top Seller
Report on the topic
See more
Market size
House sales in the U.S. remain below the levels during the COVID-19 pandemic boom

Number of new house sales in the United States from 2000 to 2024, by financing type (in 1,000s)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Number of new house sales in the United States from 2000 to 2024, by financing type (in 1,000s)

Employment security, the cost of borrowing, and the availability of homes for sale are some of the major factors that influence the housing market. During the COVID-19 pandemic, many aspiring homeowners in the U.S. and around the world capitalized on the record-low mortgage rates and bought a home, leading to a spike in residential sales. When mortgage rates soared because of inflation and lower inventory, the market cooled, resulting in fewer transactions and a correction in house prices.
U.S. housing market
Global housing market
UK housing market
Market segments
How much does an apartment cost in some of Europe’s biggest cities?

Average cost of an apartment in Europe in 1st quarter 2025, by city (in euros per square meter)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Average cost of an apartment in Europe in 1st quarter 2025, by city (in euros per square meter)

Owning an apartment in some of Europe’s biggest and most prosperous cities can get expensive. While the availability is limited, perpetual demand drives prices up. Buying a 75 square meter apartment in London could cost up to 14,000 euros per square meter – approximately twice as much as in Copenhagen and five times as much as in Warsaw.
U.S. multifamily homes
U.S. single-family homes
U.S. apartments
Industry trends
One-fourth of U.S. millennials expect to always rent

Share of millennial renters who expect to always rent in the United States from 2018 to 2022
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Share of millennial renters who expect to always rent in the United States from 2018 to 2022

Though homeownership has been traditionally seen as a cornerstone of the American Dream, Millennials are more hesitant when it comes to buying a home compared to older generations. Since 2018, the share of Millennials who expect to always rent has gradually increased. One of the major factors contributing to this trend is that homes have become substantially less affordable in recent years, meaning that many Americans have given up on homeownership.
U.S. senior housing
U.S. student housing
Residential rental market in the UK
Market leaders
Canada’s largest REIT specializes in residential real estate residential properties

Leading real estate investment trusts (REITs) in Canada in 2024, by market capitalization (in billion Canadian dollars)
Please wait

Further details: Visit original statistic Leading real estate investment trusts (REITs) in Canada in 2024, by market capitalization (in billion Canadian dollars)

One of the ways to invest in real estate is through Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs). REITs are public companies that own and lease income generating real estate. Instead of buying the properties, investors buy shares and receive dividends in return. In Canada, the leading REIT in 2024, CDN Apartment UN, had a market cap of about 7.8 billion U.S. dollars. The company is an apartment properties investment trust that specializes in mid-tier and luxury multiunit rental properties.
Gross revenue of leading U.S. home builders
Leading building societies in the UK, by number of investors and borrowers
Leading real estate companies in Japan, by the number of condos managed
State of the industry

Industry Definition

Residential real estate is real estate that has been developed for living purposes. Housing comes in different shapes and sizes and varies across countries and regions. It includes apartments and multi-family housing more common for dense urban areas and city centers, as well as single-family or semi-detached housing typical for areas with predominantly residential use. While student housing, coliving, and build-to-rent properties also have a residential aspect, they are often developed and operated primarily for commercial purposes which classes them as commercial real estate. Further facts on the supply spectrum of the market can be found in our Construction section.
Real Estate

    Commercial Real Estate
    Industrial Real Estate
    Mortgages & Financing
    Property Services
    Residential Real Estate

More interesting topics from the industry "Residential Real Estate"
Affordable housing in the U.S.
Co-living market in the UK
Coronavirus U.S. real estate
Coronavirus UK real estate
First-time home buying UK
Gen Z and the housing market in the U.S.
Global housing market
Home renovations in Japan
Housing for seniors in the U.S.
More interesting topics from the industry "Residential Real Estate"
Apartments

    Residential housing market in Australia
    Residential real estate in Japan
    Residential real estate in New York

Houses

    Residential housing market in Australia
    Residential real estate in Japan
    Residential real estate in New York

We’re happy to help
Get in touch with us for additional information

Feel free to contact us anytime. We will respond to your inquiry as quickly as possible.
Get in touch

    Home
    About Statista
    Career
    Contact
    Help & FAQ
    Report Bug
    Privacy
    Imprint 

